 today is our most interesting session. why is it the most interesting because till today all the experiences of your life that you have had or have had are related to this topic, from today onwards we will try that you would reflect back at your lives up to now up to today and look back at your life and think and see that whatever we have been thinking and understanding about this topic till today was one lens and whatever we will see from today onwards, that is another lens, another perspective, another point of view. We have observed this thing in all the previous sessions, we have applied it on ourselves that we have to determine right and wrong in our lives only and only by basing it on research, we should not determine right or wrong with any belief, sect, sect, religion, any such lens, with any press, with any bias, with any pre-meditated, pre-industrial concept, we should always keep the truth in front of us. We have to keep the journey of life in search of truth and be always engaged in it. To do all this, till now we have studied those principles in ethics at a very macro level in the first session that what is principle. We came to know that the definition of ethics which is prevalent in the world at present, principle is not mentioned anywhere in it, it is mixed with morality. After that we studied in philosophy that what is the importance of philosophy and religion, world, all these are describing the philosophy of life from their own point of view, so philosophy is that essence, that spirit, that soul which gives life to the truth, the soul within a thought process, it is the philosophy that beats philosophy of life and beats philosophy of anything just like today we will be discussing the philosophy of mysticism. Basically we will explore the philosophy of mysticism that what is mysticism What is it? Then we came to religion. We looked at the philosophy of religion. We looked at religion through a philosophical lens. We studied religion. Now we have started studying what religion is. What makes religion? Religion what qualifies as a concept to become a religion and how mankind establishes within itself a concept of religion. Today in this journey, we will talk about ethics, principles, philosophy, religion, that is, the practice which is based on some theology or some mythology. The purpose of placing mysticism at number four was that we should move in the journey in that order which helps us in reaching mysticism and in gaining its freedom, in gaining its understanding, in gaining its understanding, in gaining its understanding, in understanding its meaning, in assisting us in accessing the true essence of mysticism, just like the first two sessions help us understand religion. The first session helps us understand philosophy and this and ethics was played at first because we have to know how the whole system works one we think about something how we perceive things now mysticism anyway we will go according to the course outline what we do is we can open the course outline for our semester one so if you guys open it in front of yourselves of course we should have opened it or we would have gone this is our course outline of semester one of mysticism in which definition origin philosophy ethics religion and art of mysticism and sin art is our next session so we will take philosophy ethics and religion only in this semester in this session just like our session of art will be over so in the next session we will also take art of mysticism along with it after that there is science behind mysticism divine mysticism significant of mysticism end of course the Creator, creation and creature mysticism, in the light of these three aspects, or how do these three aspects appear in the light of mysticism? We will start from the definition and origin and then the feelings. We will take it as far as we can today, Insha Allah. And wherever we feel that many questions will come to your mind today, then wherever you feel that there are too many questions, you can stop me and address those questions first, then we will proceed in the next session. You would I would want you to be very present minded today because in this discussion I can tell you what happens to me I am not taking heavy things requesting meeting summary. We will include third party models in the AI ​​campaign. Zoom should not use any audio video chat support. Let me enable it. No, how much will you do? Not now. There are two options available on this, enable and not now, not. Now do it because our Urdu is a mix of English then how will the summary be made oh ok ok first of all you people have to be a little alert and a little present minded because I would want you to be very evolved in this I might even want your input in this during the discussion so first of all you have to keep your notepad, pen and paper with you on the screen of your laptop whatever way you write notes it will be a very fun journey in this we have a term used in English it is called asset atis jam asset icism atis jam that feeling is called that state of mind in which a person reasons about all those things which we consider blessings in the world if you put it on the lane then it will probably give you dervishi gosht and many such explanations in it I had told you in the chapter on religion that you had read Karen Armstrong's book

You have to start studying the book History of God. Take it slow, go slow, steady. Make notes of it and read two, three or three pages. For example, you have made a report on ethics and philosophy. Similarly, after reading two, three or four pages, as far as you feel that you are capable of making a report, make a small report of it and attach it in the form of notes in your book. What is the benefit of this? When you give that book to someone to read and you also give notes, then that person after reading the book, benefits a lot from your notes. It is very beneficial for him. The name of the author is Karen Armstrong, son of Karen Armstrong. He has put the research of his life in it. What a beautiful statement Karen Armstrong has done in it. The name of the book is History of God. It is a beautiful statement that a man is writing History of God. But in reality, it is not as the title sounds. He has tried to describe in the book that when and how man recognized God in his history. The entire journey of humanity from the East to the West. He has done research on the entire globe from the West to the North to the South, era wise he has seen where the idea of ​​God has been represented in which forms, whether it is man's own thinking and [music] if you read the book Tafcorn, then it will mention Siddhartha Gautama in it. Siddhartha Gautama was a common man whom Allah had blessed with all the blessings, blessed with luxury, he had children, he had three-four children, he had a good life, everything was available to him and one fine day he decides that he wanted to feel pain because he was living a very luxurious life, he wanted to shift and feel the pain. Certain people on the planet going through what is pain, what is suffering, what is hunger, what is thirst, I remembered a couplet on this by Ved Akhtar, there is a poem of his, on the shopkeepers of the city, business, what is interest, what is loss, you will not be able to know, there is a couplet of his in it, one couplet of it is what is desert, blisters What is desert and what are the blisters of the heat? Blisters appear on the feet if you walk on hot sand then blisters appear on your skin. So Siddhartha Gautama thought that I want to feel the pain, I want to feel it and he went on a journey and according to that book and according to the history of Siddhartha Gautama which I have read, Siddhartha Gautama is a very prominent name in Hinduism and Buddhism. So in history he sits down in a position for over 300 years, I may be even more without eating, drinking, sleeping, blinking, he just sits in position and trends into some zone, so much so yes how is it possible or today in mysticism we will try to touch so much, so that history says that after 100 years, Buddha, saints, Brahma, saints, his disciples, his angels and when I ask Siddhartha what do you want then he says, go and do your work brother, I don't know you, I am also in some other thought. Do not distract me from my concentration anyway, so doing this for 100 years, 200 years, 300 years, by the way, this is not the history of Siddhartha Gautama, in Islamic history also many such sets have passed which if you study you will say that how is it possible but today we will discuss yes, that Siddhartha achieved the state of nirvana, after 300, 400 and 500 years he comes down by himself and from that Sirta you have achieved the state of what do you want now, and even then he says that okay, he wakes up again and says, what is nirvana anyway the point is why I am discussing this with you, two types of basic Uloom exist in the world, and the Holy Quran also testifies to this, the Old Testament also testifies to this, the New Testament also testifies to this, the Gita also testifies to this, the scriptures also testify to this, Buddhism testifies to this, birth testifies to this, the world There is no religion of the world which does not testify to these two sciences, one is the external science which is visible to us and the other is the external science which is the opposite of the external science, the internal sciences, the visible and hidden, the conscious state of mind and the subconscious state of mind. Where are the references in the Quran-e-Pak, we will see later where all the sciences have been addressed in the Quran, what is the internal science, because the Quran-e-Pak itself alerts you in the first two-three verses of Surah Baqarah, after Surah Fatiha, that this book is sent down as a guidance, for whom is it a guidance, for whom is this book sent down as a guidance, those people who know or believe, what is the Quran-e-Pak starting with, the history of the internal sciences, the internal sciences, on top of that, it first says, take an oath that now whatever I will say in this Quran, you will follow it because these are the things which It is unseen for you, you are not aware of this, this is not possible to verify by means of your visible knowledge, there is no visible history what I am about, so the Holy Quran clearly alerts you that we are not told in the Tafseer that how grave a statement this is, and we recite these lines by rote like parrots, whereas this verse hits a wise man like a shock wave that what is the first lesson being given to me that if you have to take guidance from this Book, then there is no doubt in it, but there is no doubt at all that it is mukeen, so the question arises that which guidance did you understand, in mukeen this


Who is a Mutkin? The immediate question comes that this book is a light of guidance only for the Mutkin, so who is this Mutkin? The immediate answer comes that, then you sit down and think that this is not me, about which Ghaib is the book talking about, what do I have to believe in, what do I have to have faith in, so when the book starts its statement, in such a situation, the first thing you should do according to me, please do not take me to task, attach another small book with me that this Bil Ghaib, which is Bil Ghaib, how long, where and how is the discussion of Bil Ghaib found in the Holy Quran, so that I can first retrieve that data and believe whether I believe in this thing or not, I have started believing with my eyes closed, I have started having some faith, I have started making the coming generations follow that religion, I have started making them follow that deen, so first I should be told what is that Ghaib on which I have to have faith, but we don’t do that. What does mysticism say? What is mysticism? First of all, I would like to explain its definition to you. Mysticism is called spiritualism in Urdu. Please keep writing your points. Mysticism is called spiritualism in Urdu. Now, as you say spiritualism, you say that it means humanity and spirituality are two different concepts. It means that in this chapter, in this content, nothing will be related to my body or five senses. Whatever will be there in it will be a discussion behind this visibility. Now you have to write one thing in your points that yes, what does Niyat Love sound like that it does not have a discussion of the soul. Actually, it is not like that. Spirituality is not the actual translation of mysticism. Mystery is every thing that is called what is the definition of mystery. Every thing that is observed by the intellect, that which you cannot understand, that which you cannot explain with reason or logic, is a mystery. That is, everything that does not fall within the parameters of reason and cannot be weighed on the scale of reason is called mystery. Now we have read in ethics and philosophy that first of all we have to see the fundamentals of a subject on which its logic is derived. If those fundamentals belong to a believer, then it is appropriate for him to believe in one or multiple entities whom he calls divine creator. When we looked at religion in the light of ethics and philosophy, we looked at it from this point of view that we should first be told those fundamentals so that we can know and classify whether this is a conversation of a non-believer in religion or of a believer. So I immediately came to know that the fundamentals of a religion have to have one or multiple creators, that is where we lose our non-believers out of this discussion. So we discussed only believers. And the concept of believers was discussed because fundamentally non-believers and believers had become separated, their principles of believer and non-believer will be different. Now we come to mysticism. Let us put mysticism in that scale that what are its fundamentals, so by name, by the word mysticism is telling its fundamentals that first of all one should be prepared that the journey from here onwards is of a mystery, of such a mystical world which is called Roohaniat in Urdu, the purpose of which is that now there will be no conversation of body and five senses from here onwards. When you said how is it possible, then in that question it was given that how is it practically possible, how is it physically possible, how is it logically possible, you cannot put logic, quality and practical in a subject, it starts with the word mystical, it starts with the fundamental of a mystery. It starts with the fundamentals of spirituality. It means that now you should not ask me any visible question. Otherwise, I will understand that you did not listen to the lecture on ethics properly. You did not listen to the lecture on philosophy properly. And you also listened to the session on religion just like that. These laws, these principles did not descend on you because as soon as you enter mysticism, your discussion will not be based on any ideology. Here all the constants and variables will change. Here the variables will become constants. Constants will become variables. And suddenly mysticism will tell you that brother, in our country, the sky is below and the earth is above. We stand in the sky and look at the earth. Then you will say what kind of discussion is this. If I take one jump, I am on a cloud. If I take the second jump, I am on the third sky. If I take the third jump, I am on the seventh sky. Then what kind of discussion is this? Then the mystic will say that brother, you stay in the world, you leave your worldly appearance. Let's talk here, he will talk who will first align his fundamentals with the concept of mysticism because we are not acquiring it on ourselves, we are studying it. While being in religion, we had created a digital room of our zoom room and we had said that right now you do not belong to any religion, you have to see all religions with a neutral lens. Similarly, by coming into this zoom box of mysticism, you have to keep the logic of the world out of this box. Inside this box, only the logic of mysticism will be discussed, which will be discussed with reference from the Quran Pak, which will be from the Old Testament, New Testament, Buddhism as well. References of every school of thought will be used which highlights the spiritual, hidden aspects of mysticism and I guarantee you would be amazing that the Quran Pak will enlighten this knowledge or

How beautifully he discusses the knowledge or Bil Ghaib, after this you will understand and think that all the scholars we have seen till now who present Sufism or spirituality with a very negative connotation, Allah Taala did not open the veil of mysticism on them, otherwise whether they believe in it or not, they would not have betrayed their knowledge by explaining its existence. We people should not betray our knowledge anywhere in our lives. This is the essence of Wasila, this is the essence of Wasila that we should not betray our knowledge. If the Holy Quran is starting with the Bible, then we have to first accept the Bible that this something of the Quran is to meet this is something hidden, this is something that you cannot see, I will explain to you as the Quran progresses and proceeds, then it starts to open its secrets to you that when and what happened that Adam al-Salam was made an angel in front of us. We are saying what kind of conversation is this of this apparent world, why doesn't anybody write about it, how is it possible, beyond this nobody says how can this happen, because the Quran said it, Allah Subhan Tala said it and made Nabi Pak Salam say it, now all the constants and variables got shaken, got shuttered, Nabi Pak Salam said it, we accepted it, Allah Tala said it, we accepted it because we had read in ethics that the creator is all laws and all fundamentals, whenever he wants he will shake your fundamentals as well, he will shake your laws as well, he will disturb your foundation, everything and say that whatever I am saying, follow my command completely because who knows I am testing you, like he did with Iblis, Allah Tala did that test, he failed in the test, he asked a question on the basis of logic that O Allah, this is made of clay, this is made of mud, why should I bow before it, how is the logic It is possible, just as the question came, he also said that it is possible that I bow before this, this very low grade creature, I am very high great, so Allah said you are being stubborn and that too at what time, when my command came, you are using your brain, using your thinking, using your logic, when I am saying bow down, the one who tells Aazal not to bow down before anyone except me, the one whose first step of belief is that do not bow down before anyone except him, he says bow down before him, so Iblis says O my God, fear is how is it possible, then Allah says, well the angels did not think about this, how is it possible, the angels have seen the order and have executed it, so from here onward in this room box there is no visible logic, there is no practicality, there is no assisting reality, visibility of five senses, when the door of mysticism opens, then an ichhat ment, a talisman is revealed. In which the door of a beautiful unexplainable phenomenon opens up. Now as soon as this door opens, what happens is that some mysterious secrets start getting revealed to us. Today, first of all, by enabling this chat window, I want everyone's thumbs up or high five that whether we will stay away from logic and mantra and this conversation and study mysticism by being neutral, will there be any such question on which we will laugh out of surprise, that what kind of question is this, then you asked a practical question because we got to know the fundamentals, this is a mystical world, now let's go from here, now your mind will spin that what all concepts have come brother, why didn't we see this when that senior Mohammad Ali Mirza says, Baba, Baba is nobody, so Baba has been saying all his life that I am nobody, I am nothing, I am insignificant, that poor engineer seconds these Babas, proves them right because Baba has been saying all his life that I am nobody, whatever I am, is God, I am If we don't exist then what kind of a world is this suddenly in which all the angles turn upside down. The angle reverse now we have to do. First we try to draw something on the white board. You can turn on the white board. I cannot do it. Ayaz, mysticism is two different things. Right now I will tell you what is mysticism and what is Tas. We have to go together. We will discuss this also today because mysticism is called spiritualism in Urdu. Spirituality and Tasawwuf are not the same thing. Now we will discuss why spirituality is called spirituality and before spirituality there is a knowledge of nafs and there is a knowledge of soul. The discussion of nafs is spiritualism. Now I will ask you to open the white board for me. Please thank you. Okay, I will try. Now you people have to discuss the board on this. But you have to remain alert, how much fun you guys have, they are coming in it, everyone's hardships have started coming, stars have come in abundance, friend, why not draw this line, ok, these people are deleting it, you guys should not touch the board, we will set up a job later, who has touched it, whoever does it, I have to remove it, no class, no, without sugar too life gets boring, these are not online classes which were there during Corona, well now you have to be a little alert, apply sugar as much as you want, you have to remain alert because the things that I have started talking to you now, after that do not apply this line, who applied the line, friend, I think the board should be closed, this concept of board is not right, well now I will explain it to you again on paper, ok because I don't know how you will see the paper on the board, how do you see that this

The focus is this, now you people have to draw something of this type on your papers, I will tell you what to do, okay how, like this, first of all you have to draw a line, very straight, till here, as much as I was trying and you were having fun on the board, so I could not do it and if you look carefully here, it is written on one side or it does not even come into focus, now you cannot do anything on the board that these children do not have fun and we can also use the board, if you could share its picture, you can share the picture of the page with me, you can share the picture, you can share a good idea, yes, the necessary powder first, I will give it to you here, so you are an artist, it is a good thing, it is a good thing, now you have to keep this picture in front of you in the entire discussion, not here, here we will keep that thing in front which we will consider important, okay, first of all you have to understand these things, I will write it a little better and give it to you, you will not have to read it, next time I will have to have our I saw the black board, can you see this? Ok, let's take it in front. Now open the chat window. Please, right now you guys should not write anything else in the chat except whatever I keep asking. We will address all your questions, all your discussions, but right now keep this in front. Please open the chat and you guys have to comment only on those things that I discuss with you. You have to look carefully what we have done in this. Is my curse visible? No one else is seeing it. Ok, your curse is visible. Look, one thing is written in the middle of all this, Sadar. Please be alert and listen to me. This discussion is very important. It is written in the middle of all this, Sadar. Sadar, we have discussed in the previous chapter that Sadar is the door behind which the soul resides. Sadar is the residence of the soul. The soul resides where it is called Sadar. I have sent you another picture. Ok, now if you look on the right side, I have written Spirit Nafs and below it is written Karin and on the left side, you look. So it is written soul, soul, amre rabbi. Now, the question that someone asked in the middle, now all your discussions on the left side will be related to tas. Tas is written on the soul and on the right side, speech is written on the spirit. Now, whatever spirituality will discuss on nafs, it will discuss the spirit and nafs on the right side from the head and whatever discussion of Tasawwuf will be on the left side, I am telling you those fundamentals which will help you in further law and order. Therefore, you have to listen to them very carefully. Now look below amre rabbi, on the left side, I have written subconscious realm, subconscious realm and bring it to the right side and bring it down. Make the picture a little smaller and make it smaller. Zoom out, zoom out, yes, this is an area below the head, where cone is written, conscience. Okay, now you just have to listen to it. Now, I will explain everything. You will understand everything. If you come below it, then below it is written qalb. At the bottom, the word 'Qalb' is written. This is Qalb. On its right side is the brain and on its left side is the mind. That is, all the things that are hidden, subconscious, are written on the left side. Look above the mind. Thought is not visible to us. This is a thing. It is generated inside the mind. It draws the intellect. Where the arrow of 'Into' comes and looks, it meets below. Wherever Thought and Into meet, this plane is formed. This plane is called Intellect. Now if we go to the extreme right of this Intellect, it is written 'Wisdom'. On the extreme right, it is written 'Wisdom'. That is, whatever intervention you have in the world, it is through your wisdom, it is through 'Shaur', it is through 'Danish', it is through 'Dana' and on the left side, your intellect is that which is coming to you from 'Amre Rabbi' through 'Into'. Look at that from above. I have brought an arrow from 'Amre Rabbi'. This arrow has come down in the form of 'Into' with your thought. It collides with what you think, Allah bestows his blessings on you, so you have an intellect, you can see on this left side, I have written Yat Ilahiya, Shayat Ilahiya, it is that fear, it is that fear which is generated in your heart in the love of Allah, that I may disappoint Allah, I may not be able to fulfill his wish, this is that letter Ilahiya which is written on the other hand of your belief, on the right side, parallel to Shash Ilahiya, Taqwa, that is, what is the difference between Taqwa and Yat Ilahiya, that Taqwa is that practice which is of your visible life, which happens because of that letter Ilahiya, so Taqwa is that meter of yours, how much have you translated this Yat Ilahiya in your practical life, you have seen it written with wisdom, I have kept the dream on this side because above it, your spirit is Nafs, this whole side is the side of your dream world, now see along with the dream, written Bharosa and on the left side of Bharosa. That is, the belief on the face of thing is strong which draws belief, faith and Iman; in between these two there is your conscience and superior to this conscience is your Sadar from where there is access to the soul and Amre Rabbi comes down upon you in the form of an arrow, take the entire Amre Rabbi from the left side, this arrow on Amre Rabbi and from here bring the arrow down, drop down to your intellect, what is coming from your mind, originating from the thought, and this brain, and this mind, and this heart, see me

It is written below in the middle that EQ, your emotional core, is called the balance between these two, and it is in the brain, the emotional core, and on the side of the brain, IQ is written that whatever IQ you have is brain related, whatever E is, it is related to your kalp, but it is generated from the equilibrium of mind and brain, now leave this picture for a while, now whatever I will talk to you, now you will understand what I want to say, what does mysticism say by definition, that forget all the fundamentals, change them, and you have brought all these fundamentals into the inner self, now what is called the inner self, what is the hidden side of a human being that does not apply the logic of the practical world, you must have noticed that all the Sufis, whether they are Sufi poets or Sufi scholars, they talk in such a way that the maulvi says, friend, what kind of unshariri talk is this, no one can understand this. If the thing does not match with Sunnah Seerat, then today it should be clear to you after ethics, philosophy and religion that nothing of it can be found because in its fundamentals, the external knowledge does not exist at all, it does not even talk about anything, then you say that this is not a thing, what is this, what is this, what is mysticism, what is spirituality, so spirituality is basically formed by the combination of those two elements which you just saw in the picture, in which on one side there is nafs and on the other side there is soul, and both of these are not such unseen things that we do not know, by reading Quran Pak since childhood we have also rubbed the nafs, we have also read Kullu nafs jaay katl maut and we have read the discussion about killing the nafs, that the nafs has to be suppressed, the nafs has to be brought under one's control, we have read the hadith of Aaqa Salaam that Aaqa Salaam is sitting in Asab and saying that there is a devil with every person, there is a nafs, there is a devil, so Saab says Aaka Salam is there devil with you also, he says yes devil is with me also but he has come under my control, it means it does not exist you are supposed to kill it rather you are supposed to control it, now let us come to its explanation a little bit, the word spirituality is spirituality but it is not just a conversation of the soul, I told you a term, what does atom say that whatever is physical of mine, I should somehow lift it in such a way that whatever is hidden of mine comes out, I should keep my brain and my mind alive and access that door, as soon as I open that door, an in mode, my super human super natural mode gets activated, people spent ages, some went to the garbs, some started shouting, some became a sanyasi, some became a darvesh, some became a mad, some did not get that thing, no one knows this except God because Allah Taala has to give access to it to whomever he wants, now whomever he wants to give this knowledge to, or to that person. His yearning, his dedication, his austerity, his concentration, his devotion, dedication, submission, who all got all these things and when? We have read so many stories of Musa as Salam. Musa Salam used to say only one thing to Allah Taala, I want to talk to you. Allah used to say that you are not capable of taking what is beyond the visible and particular might and glory of Allah Taala. You will see, I have not made you capable of this. You are not physically capable because I am the creator, I do not know how you can handle it, and what happens? What does the Quran testify that when a small glimpse descended on a mountain in the form of glory, the entire mountain was shattered into pieces, so this human being gets crushed under a stone of that mountain, so the human being is not capable of this at all. Well, now if the human being is not capable of this, then when does he become capable of this, when Allah Taala gives access, and then he converses with Musa as Salam behind the curtain. Now, which access is this? Which place is this? Which is that path which is open for you and me all the time, which was open for Ambiya Salam, which is open for every human being, whether it is Siddhartha Gautama, who does not even believe in Allah, whether he is a Pandit, whether he is a Chinese monk, whether he is a Greek person or a Muslim, it means that this is a certain knowledge, certain mankind has duly documented this somewhere and while documenting it, the Holy Quran is testifying it at many places, the Holy Quran says that yes, this has happened, remember when it happened like this, remember when Musa al-Salam got the blessing, who is this knowledge, no one is a stranger from the inner world, takes entry into the practical world, takes Musa al-Salam and starts doing things, if we have done it, then we will believe in that secret and in that secret also mysterious things are being discussed, you have read in Surah Qaf that he was going on a journey with Musa Salam and he took Musa al-Salam to such a mystical world that Where Musa al-Salam, a prophet, was shocked that what is happening, why did this happen, how did this happen and Lam is saying do not ask me questions why because my fundamentals and your fundamentals are so different that I am allowed to even slit the throat of a boy, they are killing a child, not a child, by the way, it is a young boy, that child is a misconception, they used to kill a young boy, then Musa Salam says in practical words how is it possible to you would justify, just like there was question in our chat window how is it possible to justify floating on water flying in the sky slitting throat and yet by the command of the Lord Mighty, then Param says there, your and my journey cannot go further from here because your fundamentals are so different from my fundamentals.

The question is that in your papers I am a murderer and in my papers I am the savior of mankind, so the question of Musa Islam is okay, he says that Allah tells me that I killed one person, I killed the entire humanity, how did you kill him, so he said you did not read the second part of the verse, I am not saying that this was a dialogue, I am just giving this supposition that the second part says that if you saved the life of one person, then you saved everyone's life, so by killing him I saved the entire humanity, so technically I saved the entire humanity and saved him from a sin which he was about to commit, so meaning even by killing him I am freeing him above, now when these fundamentals change, then this Quran also troubles us by testing that wake up and do not think, it's as simple as plus two over here 2 plus two may even be five 2 plus two may even be four 2 plus two may even be four, now in these three We know only 2 P U E 4, we only believe in this, or when does your 3 and F occur, then mysticism begins to open its chapters, unfortunately there is so much of an emphasis on mysticism that its content is hidden from us, as if the Bible is kept away from us, saying don't read it, don't read it, it has been distorted, don't read it, you will go astray, I have heard clerics coming on TV saying that you cannot even read the translation of the Quran by yourself, you will go astray, because of this point I am telling you because they do not have answers or explanations for them, if a child says in the beginning that what does A B mean, cleric sahab, then cleric sahab will say, well even I have not done this till now, how can I tell you that you can believe in it, no one believes in the unseen until there is some verse on it, so the Holy Quran is explaining in detail the verses to explain those verses, which Now we will go further and discuss where the Holy Quran has explained this knowledge, this mysticism in such a way that two things identification, now your chat window is open, can anyone tell me the five elements which are part of the human body - wind, water, earth, fire? Tell me their explanation, soul has become one, you have told about the fifth element, yes, this has become one element and water, fire, wind, soul, now water and sand, so we came to know about nafs, Shagufta has used the word nafs, soul, nafs, water, air and fire, the air that we breathe is the wind, fire is the nafs, now the work of nafs is that it has to keep our wet clay in shape all the time, as our nafs is moving, we are growing, our wrinkles are increasing, my age is increasing, hair is turning gray, so it means that we are growing all the time, as we are growing, it means that this wet clay is changing its shape, so it should not happen that my hand goes inside. So this fire has given a shield to my skin, my body. Now this shield, you have to listen to me carefully from here onwards. Here spirituality changes into two divisions. This nafs which gives me shape, is for my protection, so that when wind blows, my shape does not get damaged, when something hits me, my shape does not change and when time passes over me, my shape does not change, I can maintain a certain shape. This nafs is my protector. This nafs is my shield, but because it is fiery or holds fire, its control is obligatory, otherwise this fire can burn me and it will burn me. This is a very cheap loss. If I do not keep it under control, it will start burning people around me, it will start damaging them. Someone asked Aaka Salam how far is heaven, what did he say? A distance of two steps; if you keep your first step on nafs, then the second step in heaven. This is the control in which you have given this fire, this energy, this strength. You have to control it, convert it and direct it towards the noble path, the right path and the benefit. When winter comes, we need fire. We need this protection for winter. We don't need fire just for heat. We do countless things with fire. Yours is cooking and eating. In this society, cooking is done on fire at a very high temperature. This means that fire is not a bad thing. Fire is Allah's blessing. It is a gift. It is a blessing. How to control it? This is to control the fire. You have to control the nafs. The Holy Quran talks a lot about the nafs and the love. We will discuss it separately when we come to the chapter of nafs. But first, the identification is soul. Here, spirituality is divided into two divisions and classifications. One, which will have all the knowledge of nafs and the other, which will have all the knowledge of the soul. There must be a difference between these two. Spirituality. All our modern liberals who are into spiritualism, you have to listen carefully to one thing, from today spiritualism is only a discussion of nafs, spiritualism has nothing to do with your soul, all discussion of soul is in Tasawwuf, which these liberals call Sufi Jam, there is a difference between Sufi Jam and spiritualism, there is a basic difference, you have come to know the fundamentals today that what is based on nafs is spiritualism, what is based on soul is Sufism or Tasawwuf, that is why whenever someone talks to you about spirituality, I like spirituality a lot, I am a big speaker of that qawali.

I heard there was so much spiritualism in it, there was so much of it in Arfana Kalaam, you can say that there was no spirituality in it, there was no spiritualism in it, it is your spirit which is making you say this because when the spirit controls you, it will take the credit of the Quran as well, it will take the credit of Tas as well, it will take the credit of your capability and will subjugate you, so do not talk about spiritualism in front of me, you should tell him that this is not spiritualism, I know how to identify, it takes ages, people cannot control their nafs, cannot control their nafs, cannot make their nafs a Muslim, cannot subjugate their nafs, it was very easy for Aaqa A, Salaato Salam, he controlled his nafs, his personality, Subhan Allah, was such that he had controlled his nafs, he had accessed his soul as well, now those people who ask where did Tasawwuf come from, today you will come to know that Sufism starts with Aaqa Salaam or Ambiya Salaam. Stories of Musa al-Salam tell us what Sufism is or what is called spirituality. What things were discussed by Khizar al-Salam? Where are those fundamentals different? Now whenever someone in front of you will refer to mysticism in bad terms, you will come to know that he does not know what mysticism is, otherwise he would not even talk about it. He does not know that the principles do not apply to the thing which has different fundamentals. Those principles do not seem to be applicable which are of some other chapter or some other topic. Now spirituality has adopted two chapters and two classifications in front of us. Now all the people who will start studying self on the basis of their interest are those people. Now you have to listen carefully, they are those people and they are special beautiful people who say That I have to mould myself based on the Seerat Nabvi Salam in such a way that my nafs does not become an obstacle anywhere, no no no no wait, you have changed the direction that just now you have not seen, Sharia is the practical, the visible, the tense way of life, what do people say, when they enter spirituality, people say that I have to follow this tense practical way of life, Seerat Taba Salam, this Usva Hasna, so what do I have to do, that I have acquired the ilm of nafs, nafs, im nafs, Saniymirza, in which chapter is it, I will tell you, rather you should open it and see, it is a verse of Surah Yus, I am tired, I will also check, I forgot Sir, it is a verse of Sir, Yes, verse number 106, 107 or 108, please open it, brother, ok now you have to pay attention to one thing, that you should not go from here, no, you should go from here, go from this menu, what is 10s, what is it This is below, well in this Allah is saying, prophet tell all the humans that the right has come, the right has come to you people from Allah, the right has come before you, okay it has been opened, it has come in front of you from your Lord, okay, now it is necessary to take further, and the one who asked for guidance, he got it, the one who asked for guidance, nafs is the word used for himself, for his own nafs; here nafs is formally told to that person, in the dialect of the Holy Quran, Anas or naf, these words which are used, are properly told to you, or like when the prophet of Allah had said in Surah Mubahila that I will bring my nafs, you bring your nafs, so there he had given it to Maula Ali in reference, he had said that he is my nafs, he is like I am, so this word of nafsi is used when this particular word is used for the one who asked for guidance, for himself, where nafs is used Nafs is the identification of that singular person. Now what is this verse saying that tell all human beings that the truth has been revealed from your Lord. So whoever asked for guidance, the only person who asked for it got it. And the one who got it, this word, na vaman jalla, ya ya jillu, this word is a special term, we call it na in Surah Fatiha wal dali and not those people who are in this state of mind, these jaalin, these are those people who are in such a state of mind that they do not know anything, which has been translated here as go astray, I do not know, while translating this, these people forget the essence of the aayah when we say in Surah Fate na kera leen that those people are not like those who are in an unaware state of mind, in ignorance, in madness, or lost, lost, the right word, who gets separated from the caravan and while travelling One gets lost, this term is used for him and see, this term lost is important because the meaning of guidance is direction, fane tada means the one who asked for direction got the direction, the one who wanted to remain lost, remained lost, this is its actual translation, this which means to stray means to get lost, lost, the right word is lost, these are astray and those who have got guidance are those who asked for guidance and further Allah Ta'ala is saying that means he is making Prophet Pakam say that you should not think that I will defend you in this matter or I will protect you, despis that this verse number 108 of Surah Yus has to be transferred even to your children, that the right has been given, all the justice is being said by Prophet Pakam that all of them have the right over humanity, now whoever sought guidance got the guidance, whoever wanted to remain astray, he remained astray, not every Prophet of Allah Ta'ala will defend him, nor will a single advocate mean

I am not your lawyer, then I will not advocate for you, it means effort, I will start with you and for your own self. Now this nafs, which is mentioned, this nafs, this nafs is mentioned in the Holy Quran and the nafs which we are mentioning according to the hadith, a nafs descends with a human being, this nafs and what is the difference between this nafs, that the nafs which comes under your control becomes a seeker of the path of guidance, those who are dependent on others, those nafs which do not obey them, they choose to go astray. Let it be their choice to change either, then the nafs convert, then the nafs to seek direction, guidance or to let the nafs go away. Now, here there is no discussion of Shariat at all in this entire book, but if you carefully understand the matter, Shariat is a way of life, a code of life, code of life is a practical thing, when we discuss mysticism If we do it then we do not have to discuss the practical, we have to discuss that actuality which before the practical, in the Arshe Mohalla, in the skies, in the Alam Arwa, all our conversations are related to the conversations there, what all we had thought and what did we do after coming here, mysticism says that all you people of Tasawwuf should do this in which the chat window is visible from where, I am sorry, ok you have closed the chat window, Hadid actually raised a point, I mean mysticism can be atal Sharia i d see, mysticism is a parallel path to Sharia, the fundamentals of Sharia come from Quran and Sunna, the fundamentals of mysticism come from the hidden realm of the prophets, any human being, when Musa as Salam said Rabli Sadri, then what did he do, he asked for access to that inner world, no no yes yes Ali Ali you right see, not the first step and not the only step, mysticism says that I have to know the secrets of the world I don't know, I don't know the world, the world doesn't exist for me because as I move towards the world, I create such a huge waste of destruction from the mystical world, that's why what does Tas say, now coming to Tas for a minute, Tas says, R Sadari wa Sarli Amri, Tas starts with this prayer that O Allah, open my Sadar and give me access to that inner knowledge and make it easy for me, Amre Rabbi, so that that int can be on me, you remember that picture that we just opened, so that the int can descend on me, my thought has taken access, now this int will come from here, within the heart, this int will come here and will descend in easy words in the statement, step to control, next step is establishing Sharia, wait wait wait step step, right now you people are not coming out of Sharia, while staying in this room, you should not discuss any practical things right now, otherwise your state of confusion will remain intact, you have to understand any matter, any thing, right now you have not understood the Sharia, the Nizam, the Deen This time you have to relate the Quran only because there is no knowledge more superior than the Quran in the world. That is why when I quote the verses of the Holy Quran from you, then from that you have just told me one such verse in which it has been talked about the truth being revealed. All the humans coming today when this is the day where I claim that the truth has been revealed to you from Allah Ta'ala, from your Lord. Now whoever sought guidance got guidance. Whoever wanted to go astray, did not want lust, remained lost. And do not then become the prophet to be an advocate of him, he will not advocate for you. It means these are three or four very clear points. Now when the truth is revealed here, then after this Allah Ta'ala has left it up to you to decide which one of these you want to be. Right now you have understood my point, but the Shariat is not being discussed. Right now we first identify the self [music] hunger, thirst, children, wife, sister, brother, love, respect, honour. Luxury, all these doors open up. When these doors open, the inner doors close on me. That is why I have to lock my nafs. I have to subjugate my nafs. If I build a wall of nafs around me, I will become blind from the world and that blindness will open a third eye of mine. Another eye will open in which I will get access into the super natural. As I will get access to the super natural, I will gain all that information and bring it down on myself. Then I will come into the practical world whenever I want and I will exist in the super natural world whenever I want. This balance that I will have, I just made a picture for you of the right and left side of my conscious state of mind and my sub-conscious state of mind, when they get aligned, I will get so much access that I can access my soul whenever I want, I can apply it in the world whenever I want, I can access my face whenever I want in the world. Only those people, whose names have been written in history, have been able to do this practically. Be it the time travel of Nuh as Salam, be it Yas as Salam, be it Idris as Salam or Wa Aaka Salam, now I will give you a small example; right now we will not have any kind of practical discussion; please now you should understand that Aaka Sala Salam one fine day is said to have been written in the Holy Quran that we took Aaka Sala Salam to Aqsa in one night and brought him to the sky from Aqsa in the same night; now you tell me how it is possible in a chat window written on this that how in one hour of a single night Aaka Salaam goes from Saudi Arabia to Palestine and from Palestine to Arsh Mohalla, there he is shown Paradise and the people there are existing and he is shown Hell.

There people are existing there, there is a list of prophets in seven heavens, they meet those prophets, then they meet Musa al-Salam in the seventh heaven, from Musa al-Salam they go up to Ash-Molla P Allah Tala, then they take Namaaz from there, then come back, then send Musa-Salam, then come and go, then while doing this they come and then they come back to their city, their country, in the world in practical life, nobody knows how much time they spend during that time because when Allah Tala brings them back, he brings them back at the same moment from which he separated them from there, now why am I telling you this, why did he do this, is anything impossible for Allah Tala, no, by definition there is nothing, God cannot do but Miraj, while listening to the conversation of Miraj, we come to know that by the command of this Rabbi, with the permission of Allah, it is possible for even a human to take himself here and there, now the question arises that friend, have I also tried my best to do practical life I have to see my family, my friends, my practical life, my business, work, trade, job, my children, my neighbors, rituals, all this. Eating, drinking, sleeping, waking, illness, treatment. During this time, I have ignored this big hidden world because it is out of sight, out of mind, out of sight, out of mind. I cannot see it at all, that is why it does not assist me. If it does exist for me, then why does mysticism not show me those ways, why does it not give me those chapters of spirituality through which I can access it and improve my practical life, my children's future, here after the end, I can do such a super natural activity for them or I can do it as a mother and father. So you can do all this, when can you do it? When you read mysticism like a book, we have also read the Old Testament, we have also read the New Testament, it is not that I will become a Christian after reading it. I have read the Gita, I have read the Granth. Read, I neither became a Hindu nor a Jew nor a Sikh nor a Christian, after all I used to come back to my Quran and considered its correct things from my Quran to be correct, the things which were in contradiction to the Quran, I used to misunderstand them, now what does the Qutub of mysticism say, what do I lose in reading it, do I have such weak faith that after reading someone's book I will become like that or like that, no no hot works, mysticism says that these are two paths, one path in which you have to achieve spirituality and the other is Tas as it is, it is not just like nafs, spirituality, you started controlling it by suppressing the na, Tasawwuf is not this, what Tasawwuf says is that if I enter from this door, now from here onwards you have to listen to me carefully, if I open the door of Tasawwuf, then whatever I have read till now in history, I have seen the people with spirituality I have found it very clear that all the spiritual people who play with nafs, literally people actually play with the powers of nafs, positive as well as negative, it is fire, it is energy, how to use it depends on the person, if he is a decent man then he must be using it properly, all the Aamil Babas, it is written on the walls that in 72 hours my beloved will do black magic at your feet, all of them are the ones who play the game through nafs on this side, who are called Moklas, what are these Moklas, they bring the nafs of different people under their control and now for example you came to me, I am some Aamil Baba, you said that I want to get a spell done on so and so or I want to get this done on so and so, then first of all I will locate you by asking you whether you are from which area, ok, in that area, the nafs of so and so is under my control, in that area, the nafs of so and so is under my control, I am Kanga, ok you go, your work will be done tomorrow, I will do my amal tonight I will bring their nafs to me and make them do such wrong deeds that you will say that friend, this is a great game of his, he did this to him in two minutes by doing black magic, he did that to him. Those who control nafs, there are two types of people, one is the noble people and the other is the bad people, bad people, evil people, devil people. So, those who are controlling nafs, nafs has such a powerful energy that it burns houses, it sets generations of generations on fire, it burns cities of its cities. These are the two powers fighting in the whole world right now, listen to me, at this time Israel is not doing wrong against Israel, the angle from which it is looking at it, it is doing right, it is doing wrong from our angle, it is doing wrong from the angle of morals, it is not doing wrong from the angle of ethics, because by controlling his nafs on ethical laws, an energy of fire, he is Nitan Jahu and he converts this by the meaning of his words and probably even black magic and What ever term he uses, he controls his nafs of his surroundings in such a way that he is burning the world and the Palestinians by proving them right because what is with him is not logic to him, even a blind person can see it, even an ignorant person can see it, even a deaf person can hear it, everything is there, there is a sense which Allah Taala has given to every person, the one who has not been given eyes, he has also been given a sense, he is more superior to us and more superior to those who can see.

He can also see many things that the eyed cannot see. What is that sense? This is an inner sense. It is telling that whatever Israel is doing right now, it is wrong. Why are they not understanding that they are doing wrong because their partners are aligned with the same concept of taking control of their nafs for in the direction that they want. Now his right seems right to all those people who are sitting with him in this war, whether it is America, UK, NATO, anyone, whether it is Arab, these are the people who are under the control of that nafs and have published a certain tag that we have seen in religion, its fundamentals are different. I cannot talk to him about logic, common sense, ethics, morals. He did not stand on those fundamentals. Like, make a Sufi sit in front of me, a Maulvi, an Amil and a common man. So these are four different people, the principles of these four are different. A Sufi will say what is the world. We will say that they are killing children, children have to die, who dies after dying, who dies from here and comes out there, this is an immortal soul which you have found, we will say hey friend what is he talking about because his fundamentals are different. Then we tell this to the Maulvi sitting with us, then the Maulvi will say that brother the war will happen when our Amir will say hey friend what is he talking about, we will go to the third one, I will implement that now, my Jin will go and will destroy Nitan Jau, what kind of conversations do we have because the fundamentals of all of them, on which their beliefs, their faith, their image exists, all three are different from each other. Now you say where do I belong, I am with them, I am with them or with them, those people who are called Momineen, genuine Momineen who follow the Quran The person whom Pak is calling a Momin, a Momin is one who first of all understands all this, knows from their books, which language this Sufi is speaking, from which book is he speaking, which verse from the Quran is he relating, what is this Maulvi talking about, which book, which Madrasa, which school of thought does he belong to, this Amil who is sitting here belongs to which school of thought and I belong to which school of thought, what do we do, we just label someone and call them wrong or bad, I have seen so many big so called great Ulemas tearing apart Sufism, believe me I have respected Javed Ahmed Gandhi sahab a lot, I respect him a lot, one of his sayings is very beautiful, he says that whatever I have read, Sufism is an extremely beautiful thing but it is not for me, I am a man from another field, it means that whoever Allah Taala gives knowledge to, whoever he gives bravery, yes, a Momin has to answer him from his book and let me tell you one thing This is one of the styles of Madi sahab that he knows how to answer the questions of Sufism from the book of Sufism. He knows how to answer the questions of Bible from the book of Bible. This style of a believer is found in him. I may have thousands of views against him but he is very blessed. I learn a lot from him in many matters. He is one of my teachers. I learn a lot from him, that is, he is one of the spiritual teachers. I learn a lot from him, just like I have learned a lot from Maulvi Sak Sahab, just like I have learned a lot from Doctor Sar Sahab. These are three different schools of thought. All three had very different opinions from each other. They had aggressive opinions from each other, except Gandhi sahab, Gandhi sahab is not aggressive, otherwise these three schools were present at one time. That was a beautiful era. May Allah give life to Gadi sahab. He is present now. At that time Gadi sahab, Maulvi Ik Sahab and Israr sahab, all three were present and all three had a lot of discussions about each other. There were questions and all three of them used to present very strong opinions about each other that this one is like this brother, this one talks like this brother, that one talks like that brother, what is my point, what is common in these three of Asat, you have to notice this, you have to study, you have to see from their videos, these three saaj do not call Sufism bad, all three understood Sufism, had read Sufism, had understood Sufism but they used to say that this is not our field, we have not applied this purpose on ourselves, they used to salute those elders who did this, they used to acknowledge the greatness of those elders, they used to call them elders-Deen and they are following Alafia, Taubat Far, they talk about those elders using such wrong language that sometimes I am afraid that some lightning might strike them because the people on whom Allah Taala's blessings are and Allah Taala has given them respect, when someone comes and strikes them If someone tries to throw mud, then Allah Taala sometimes creates such arguments in their defense that even the big Fanne Khans do not find a way to escape. These are poor pseudo scholars, these call themselves proper scholars, if one starts saying this to himself, then one should be a little cautious about it that brother, this knowledge which gives you Kib and Takb, that knowledge is not coming from Allah, I acquired it from some other channel, to which we are not even allowed to go, so you have to try to do this, as you keep acquiring knowledge, keep doing research, a lot of content will get created inside you.

It should not happen that some such behavior comes in you which Allah does not like, you should always keep yourself humble and modest, always accept that your whole life till the time you do not die, you are a student, you are learning, when you become fourth then your learning will stop, then your examination will start, test will start, then you can say that now I am no longer your student, that means what will you say to the people whom you leave behind, then they can say that my father, brother or so and so died after getting this degree, till then he was a student, now he has died, so the profession of this thing, the qualification of this thing, the strength of this thing was that the one who starts telling himself that he has become a scholar, it means that his learning has stopped, now he should not learn, otherwise he will say that he is a student, every person was given the status of Ambiya Salam and later the Alam gave the status of teacher to whomever he was given, now coming back to the topic, listen to my words about spirituality, two things about spirituality Classification, knowledge, nafs, spirituality, knowledge, ruh, tas, this is the identification which Allah Taala had blessed us with so that we should acquire it, control it and put it to positive use. This is that shield which protects us, which descends upon us as a blessing, gives us a fiery element, like we have wind, like we have water, like we have earth, like we have light, there is one more element, this is worth noting, between this nafs and this soul, you must have seen in that picture, a conscience stands up, conscience is consciousness which is called this conscience, this is that element which has not been blessed to anyone except humans, the conscience of angels does not blame those whose conscience does not blame, the conscience of animals does not blame, the conscience of humans blames, Allah Taala has given such a gift to humans that at the time of Siya, it tells what are you doing, why are you doing this Are you not feeling ashamed? Don't you know that this is wrong? A voice comes from within, it is a trouble, it tells you, do not go there, do not do this despondency, slowly the conscience is diminishing and a time comes when we use a term, his conscience has died, his conscience has died, his conscience has ended, these are those people who ignore the voice of conscience, now what is this conscience, what is this consciousness, now for a minute if you open that picture again, rather do not open that picture, I will send you one more picture, that picture is bigger and open this picture, okay now we have started expanding spirituality, that is why I need your attention a lot, right now we were taking a comprehension of the definition of spirituality, what is this thing, how to enter inside it, now we will expand it, okay first you see this picture, okay, I was waiting for the azaan, the azaan has not happened yet, that is why I It was stopped so if you say so then let's take a break from one o'clock till one 15 till one 20. Azaan will be done any time now. Yes, okay, half control physics, let's come to this. We have started entering in this. Right now we were discussing the meme, ahead of me we are coming in two classifications. Now you people have to remain alert. After the break, while discussing it, apply the yam in front once. Rather, make a break after doing it better because I have written it very fast, so even I am not able to read it. What else will we read? Okay, okay, so we will go from one o'clock till one 20 till one 15 till one 20. Now, from here onwards the journey is going to be interesting. Please be very very alert and do come back and let's go very fast. Whatever you have written, all this is going to happen. Now further discussion is coming. Let's go very mystical ride after the break. Inshallah, thank you, Bismillahi. Ok, now let's come back into the mystical world, the angles. Twisted weave black in white and white in black in colour and colour in colour they turn right and yet we maintain our sanity and maintain our composer what is that couplet you made me mad and I became mad now don't make me a spectacle in the world of consciousness Iqbal had said dive into your mind and find the clue of life dive into your mind to make sure that you are fully drowned don't take an empty plunge, dive into your mind and find the clue of life and what is he saying next i.e. see this dialect what can be heard that this dialogue is coming from above if you don't become mine then become mine means by diving into the inner self you will enter and you will come to know who you really are of course your whole life may end in this if you get free from this then it is a very big thing my identity is a very big journey for it one life is not enough for it the more strength you give for it the deeper you will have to dive that much perhaps you may not be ready to drown so at least get your identity as to who you are Maybe you will understand a little about who I am. Now, in the direction in which we go, many of you will consider this entire chapter to be the most beautiful thing of your life or will consider this chapter to be the most unnecessary thing. Therefore, we have to live on these two extremes, either we have to accept these chapters firmly within ourselves, become an amalgam of it, or we have to reject it outright because those who are travelers of two boats do not reach their destination - Mysticism, Atom, Self Actualization, Self Recognition. All these chapters now get classified into two parts. We will discuss the chapter on self less because it will also be addressed in the chapter on religion with time.

It will keep on being discussed in the philosophy chapter from time to time, it will keep on being discussed in the ethics chapter as well, it will keep on being discussed in the arts chapter and in the second semester we will go into the expansion of nafs properly but in today's session we will stop the nafs side more and sustain it by styling it. I will now place an image in front of you. I have tried to present it to you after making it a little neat so that from there onwards I can tell you what you are seeing, what will you see in this whole journey. See at the top in the middle I have written spirituality. Spirituality is the basic classification of knowledge. The hidden world of mysticism. The hidden world of the mystical side of the whole universe. Its right side is the knowledge of nafs which is called spiritualism which is related to the spirit and on its left side is Safim related to soul i.e. Tas. Sara. Now below spirituality you can see, I have made a small membrane in which r Arrows are crossing that whether we want it or not, sometimes we go to the left, sometimes to the right, sometimes to the left, sometimes to the right. There are some people who remain completely on the left, there are some people who remain completely on the right. Both paths are fine, both paths are extremely beautiful. As much as it concerns my life, as much as I have observed, as much as I have experienced, I have found both of these people on the pure intentions of both of them, very close to Allah, immersed in the love of Allah and they have found these two people on the right intentions of the right path. Allah has blessed me a lot that I have met very beautiful people from both sides in life. I respect both of them equally. The fundamentals of both of them are so different, this is now being said with mysticism. Firstly, the fundamentals of mysticism have become different with realism because mysticism is the knowledge of truth and realism is the knowledge of manifestation. By the way, both of these are attributes. They belong to Allah Ta'ala. Zahiri is also the name of Allah Ta'ala. Baatin is also the name of Allah Ta'ala. Therefore, both have to be given the same decent amount of respect. Allah Ta'ala has kept both these attributes with Him. Zahiri is also Allah Ta'ala. Baatin is also Allah Ta'ala. Zahiri's conversation also believes in the existence of Allah Ta'ala in the fundamentals of Allah and also believes in Baatin. Therefore, in the major classification, the fundamental believer side of both is coming. We are discussing believers. The creator of both exists. Both believe in the process of creation and both start conversing with the creature. Therefore, within mysticism, the concept of non-believers comes on the side. This is only the conversation of believers. But there are two major classifications among believers. Those with jalli jahiri (knowledge of the obvious). Note these points. They should be reflected in your report. Those with jalli baati (knowledge of the obvious) look at practical life, practical side of life. Those with no jalli baat (knowledge of the obvious) look at this spirituality. These are the major two classifications. The fundamentals of both have come. It is different because the knowledge of the manifest strikes at the present. The knowledge of the material talks about the unseen, whether that unseen is within the human being, whether it is before the creation of the human being or at the time of the death of the human being and the Judgement Day, which is still missing from us. Now as you enter spirituality, then two classifications come into spirituality, so the fundamentals of both become different. The fundamental of one is based on nafs, so its principles will be related to nafs. Wherever you will renounce the Holy Quran or other books, then you will derive the laws of nafs on the fundamentals of nafs. It is a thing made of fire, so the principles of fire will apply on it, the principles of water will not apply beyond it, the principles of air will not apply. When water comes on it, the water will be its posing. When air comes, the air will ignite it. That is a verse of my father, Qadeem Hashmi sahab, of Mahoom. The branches of the forest burned with a crackling sound, the branches of the forest burned with a crackling sound, I got a great intoxication by fanning the fire, so when the nafs gets air, then the nafs loses its control, goes over board, the reason why alcohol is not permitted in Islam, I am giving you one very logical practical reason because alcohol ignites the fire, as soon as you consume alcohol, the shield of fire that is around you, it gets so much air that it takes over you, you are not in your senses, so much so that you do not even remember what all you did in that state of intoxication, and its example is such that in all the kingdoms and civilizations of the world, if someone commits murder in a state of intoxication, then he is not punished with death because he did not commit that murder by being in his senses, he did it by coming under the control of nafs, so he is not weighed on that scale at all because fundamental They have become different, he had control over the fire, he did not have control, it was not in his senses, he did not kill while being in his senses, that is why he does not get the punishment for murder, and he may get the harshest punishment, whatever he gets, he is not brought to the degree of murder at all because he does not even remember that he has committed murder or has done some God forbid such a wrong act, that is why Islam has prohibited even a drop of alcohol, who knows with one drop his nafs may get ignited so much that it takes over and over his senses and becomes more powerful.

Then he made him do those things which he did not do of his own will, but he did them under the influence of nafs, by the devil, and the devil then used him to abuse him, whatever he did, that is why people who belong to this side, the soul people, say that going to the side of nafs is extremely dangerous, because who knows, while controlling nafs, you think that you are controlling it, but on the other hand it is controlling you. I gave you the example of Nitin Jahu, I gave it only because we all are on the same page about it, otherwise I could have given you examples of many famous people of our country, who have proved in history that what all misdeeds they have committed under the influence of nafs, how many murders and atrocities they have committed on the Muslims of the whole of Pakistan, many big names are there in it, I do not think it appropriate to go into that right now, but you will understand that controlling nafs after today is extremely difficult. The work is that the people who control it are extremely beautiful people, extremely special people who control nafs so much that they know its positive side, the positive aspect of controlling this energy. All these aamil bawes, all these magicians, those who do black magic and all this, they control nafs and use it negatively. When they come to some elders that something happens to us, when their Pasma Gun casts a spell on someone, when they come to people with this side, to people with souls, that this has happened to us, then they understand that they are coming to people with souls. The person standing in front of them is also the same aamil. I will tell you his identity first. You have to remember this in life because you have to remember this. If any person in life calls himself a Pir, Fakir, an elder who says Darood, you go to him and he asks you what is your name, what is your mother's name, then immediately recite Astaghfar and leave from there without saying anything to him that okay, Allah bless you. Keep me happy, I am leaving because I have come to know that our brother, elder brother had given me an advice and explained that the one who asks this question is playing with the knowledge of nafs, he is playing with the soul, he is not a soul man, he is not a man of this kind, he has put up a pretense, he is a man of this kind and some pir fakir, he is also a positive side aamil, I do not doubt his intentions, he may also be doing good to people, that is why I am calling him a positive side person, but he knows the knowledge of nafs, he plays with spirituality, stay away from the evil of such people because what happens with them is that when a person with a more powerful nafs comes in front of them in the form of a patient, they get scared, then what comes in their heart that before this powerful nafs which has come in front of me eats me up or closes my shop, then they retain negative thoughts against him, this is a natural response, perhaps like putting a hand in a fly's nest If you try, you will be bitten. Similarly, when people put their hands in their shops, these pirs, fakirs, second rate people put their hands in their shops. Then they send their negative values, all the egos they have controlled, on you like their army. They attack you and destroy you because you do not know. You would have gone to seek help on your own. You are a simple man, simple people. These people are not simple. They have practiced these things. So they do very bad things to you in writing. Therefore, there is no need to go to these people. And if you go for some reason, then their identity is that if they ask you your name and your mother's name, then you should say, may Allah keep you happy. May Allah guide us all. Inshallah, we will meet again in this life. If Allah wishes, I have just received a call. I remembered work. I am in tension. I am leaving. Leave. Recite astaghfar and leave. Those who are on the left side, these people are. You will never meet these Sufism people, if you happen to meet them somewhere in life by chance, then they will always give you something and go. They will neither ask your name nor will they ask you about any of your problems. You will appear to them as if everything is visible through a mirror. They will come, tell you something on their own, give you something on their own and then disappear in such a way that you will say that it was probably an illusion, it was my misconception, in reality that person does not exist, he does not assist me and Allah Taala will make you meet such people. I will tell you a small story. I landed from Karachi to Islamabad, then one of my friends Dr. Furqan came to pick me up at the airport, so I told him friend give me the car, I will drive because after a long time I came back home, so I want to be myself. While we were coming, there was a dead body lying in Islamabad near Zero Point, in broad daylight, so I said friend there is someone lying on the road, we stopped the car, so I stopped the car right next to that body knowing that no one drives the car over it. So I stopped the car right with him and we got down from the car, we saw an old man sir, he was injured, blood was coming on the road, now he was a doctor, my friend, I told him doctor, look at him, is he fine, is he conscious, is he alive, what is he, he checked his pulse etc, he said no, whatever, he has expired, I said no, no, be patient, there can't be a reaction, we will put him in the car and

He was taken to the hospital right next to our place where we were at zero point, the biggest hospital in Islamabad, we said let's take him there. People started gathering. As soon as people started gathering, people came and said that the car was parked right next to the dead body, people said that he has killed him and caught hold of me and said that you killed Baba, I said politely, if I kill Baba, I will kill you as well, so talk with respect and courtesy, keep quiet and help us put this guy in the car so that we can take him. All the people went with us just to say to the people at the hospital, are the people who are killed. Now we took him to the hospital. When we took him to the hospital in emergency, they, I don't know, in a very painful way, put a pipe in the old man's mouth and started trying to revive him. After a while, we came to know that the doctor came and said that we tried but we could not save him, he is dead. Now we looked at each other. We said, take out some bullet or bullet from his clothes and inform his family. Then the police came. They have a small police station inside the hospital, it is a small one for such matters, the police came and those people who were standing with us, they testified that these people hit him, the police said come with us to this post, I and Dr. Furqan gave the face, we came, nobody knows better, Allah knows, we went inside that room, the police inspector officer was sitting there, he said yes, let us write down the names, what happened, who said, you tell us what happened, I said, I have just come from Karachi, we were going towards the house, then this old man's body was lying in front, so we suspected that maybe he was alive, something had happened to him, some accident had happened, so we brought him here, then here those people said, they hit him, I have seen, they hit him, I want to see his face, I have seen, he said yes I saw, I said, they have seen, we have hit him, we did not see what happened, a young boy of about seven and a half feet, wearing a white salwar kameez, wearing a white cap on his head And he enters that room, it was a small room, there was a lot of rush in it, he comes in front of everyone, it is very long, I think at least 10 cm, I am looking up and says, Sir, there was a white car, this was its number, I have taken a picture in my mobile, he hit this old man with his car, they came after that, they parked the car, they put the old man in the car, he was covered with blood, they ruined their car as well and they took him away in the car, they were trying to save him, he said, what is your name, he said, I will make you write down your name, shame, everything first, you bring him, the police man says, okay, may Allah keep you happy, you bring him, who does this, he reversed suddenly, as if our uncle's son says, may Allah keep you happy, may he prosper, while doing this, they threw us out and we got out, now I stood outside, I said, Furqan, I will not go like this, I want to see who is this, I will wait for him to come, meanwhile those people who were blaming us came out, they came out, meanwhile the police The one who came out, who had got the certificate, was looking at our faces and said that it was good that we were saved and he was a big fool and went away, the police came and we said friend where did he go, we went to the room but there was no one in the room, the police also left with some other report, we were standing outside that door in such a way that there could not be any person who could pass by and we would not see him and the way we were observing him because for us he was an angel and you would not believe that we looked at every place and the boy was nowhere to be found and till date whenever I and Furqan discuss it, we say that friend, only when Allah saves you, then only someone from someone will meet you, otherwise there was a proper notice against us, at least that night we were in the lockup till the next day whatever was proved would happen, we could not show our face to that family that we murdered their elder but the point is that you will meet in life that sort of people, some of them are of very high stature. Names have come up in history and we will discuss them later when we meet both the significant and the deniers. It is not that all are bad and it is not that all are good and they are sitting with their shops open. There will be someone or the other in every street and neighbourhood. It is not that they are not there. I am talking about something. If you look at the street now, names of 100 common people will come up who will tell you someone or the other from the knowledge of nafs. Yes, now the point is, this drawing which was in front of you, in this right side there is the spirit. We will discuss this later. Now we enter Tas. Now as you enter Tas, your fundamentals have changed. Now you will not talk about nafs. If you do, you will do it only to negate it. You will do it to nullify it. You will do it to finish it because whenever it will come on this side, whenever you will attach it to yourself, you will go away from Tasawwuf. Tasawwuf has nothing to do with nafs because it is fundamentally It is built on top of something else, its bond with something else is made of fire, and this is the Amar-e-Rabbi of Allah, this human Noor-e-Lour is like some kind of light, some of it is its aspect, hence its fundamentals, its properties, its characteristics, its styles, everything is different, hence never mix these two, whenever you keep these two face to face,

Will you keep it for compensation or to deny the other from one angle, that means whenever you discuss it, you will find them mutually mutually disagreeing, we make contracts by arguing with each other, now we take an entry in that direction, before taking an entry, please open Surah Hala chapter 16, I want to start from there so that there are many questions of Babbit which are addressed from it, the subject is so sir Nahl i.e. chapter 16 verse number ok, now you have to look at three aspects carefully in this, yunnal mala kta, okay, from Nazl you understood nazil to be malaika, you understood malaika, that means angels and then the word Biru comes, click on this word, on clicking he says yes Ruhi, then a word is coming forward min amri am yes and then what is Allah Taala saying ala maisha, that is, in whom he will come out of man ibad, out of l the abadt exist, okay, that means he reveals. The angels send down angels, it is written here with revelation by command. Okay, they have sent this revelation to the soul and the mind by command. Okay, you should understand this verse carefully that Allah taala ala does what he wants on whichever soul he wishes, he sends down angels to the soul, the mind, the soul, so what will be the answer to this? If you are one of the dossier of God, or manbad, by your own will and wish and desire, and the angels of command come and open the soul of the immortal of Allah, give you access to it, only then shall you be able to access the chief and enter into the realm of the supreme power of the intellect of the lord almighty to him inside you. Now what does this verse tell me that whenever this door will open in all the humans, it will open only on the formula of Ala Maysha bahi. Allah has told this law, the law of ethics. According to this law, I want to start this law, Ke Ala Maysha, Man Bahi Suss to come to play for me, to get an angel to come and open the Sadr and give me the access to any soul, full knowledge, the Lod Mighty wants me to have access to it, otherwise, no matter how much I try, this Sadr will not open on me, my Sadr will not open on me, so when Iqbal says, immerse yourself in your mind and find the clue of life, then I say that I am ready to drown, Miya, the meter in which I have to drown, now I am like the ocean, when I jump on the surface of the ocean, the ocean picks me up and throws me out, then how will I drown, how will I gain the access to Na Ala Masha, the latter, which Allah Taala has kept in His authority, so it means that in whose authority it is, I have not opened my Sadr of my own free will, I have not drowned on my own, I have to connect with him, I have to do Aqeem Salat with him, I have to establish a connection with him You have to do it in such a way that he says tell me what is your wish Iqbal has emphasized a few things in all his poetry. He says elevate yourself so much that before every destiny, so I tell him that just now you were saying that by immersing yourself in your mind, find the clue of life, there you say elevate yourself so much, then make some sense of it that what is hidden in this immersion and this height, what is this, what is this height that after reaching the height we drown in our mind, then its chapters are present to help us in it, what does Tas say, a term was just used by Babbit, most likely Fad had used the term of Wajd, Tas says that now you should listen carefully to what you say, Tasawwuf says that the treasure of the entire universe is present inside you, you have to access this treasure of the entire universe, so in order to access it, you have to make that being so dear to you, you have to make your connection with it such that Put love in the stable The ocean in which you are the treasure to drown What you are trying to do Nale Sanala Ma If you want to drown inside you then you have to make me do it What is Allah Taala saying Ala Man Yasha that I will bestow this favour on whomever I want It's my will Now I will wish When I find someone worthy of this When someone asks me in that style with that attitude which I like On which I will say go tell me what is your wish Now Tas says that there is only one way for this There is no way no other way But to love the lord in truth a way that you become your bill Now what is this A lahai fiqiya given How do I become my bill We had discussed a hadith Hadith Qudsi that do not say bad things about my saints Do not say bad things about my saints Whatever they do, I do it When they look then I become their eyes Or when they walk then I become their legs When they move I become their I become a hand, this is what Allah Taala is saying in Hadith Qudsi, I was saying ya beautiful, this is in English, actually, now see in Sahih Bukhari, there is a mention of Abu Huraira, let's start with Aaka Salam, Allah Taala said I will declare war against me who shows hostility to you, the word will be here in Arabic, see this, the word Wali or Wali is being used and here what should he use, the pious man this is not far, the pious man is not a Wali, Wali is at that level where he is the Wali of Allah Wali Aman Insaan, Allah is the Wali of humans, that is, when he becomes the beloved of Allah Taala, he becomes his friend, he likes him, this is a very early stage of Wali, well, now what is he saying, anyone who shows hostility to my Aulia, who does not behave well with my Wali, I declare war against him, I will declare war against him who is my This very dangerous warrior stands against Vali

I have heard this is a hadith of Sahi Bukhari, you have to listen to it carefully that whoever is against my Wali, hostility is a small word, hostility means if he behaves badly with him or says bad things to him or becomes his enemy, then I, Allah Ta'ala am saying that I declare war against him and the worst things with him when my slave comes near to me is what I have in joint myself with him and my slave keeps on coming close to me through performing Nawafil prayers and doing extra deeds besides what I am obligatory till I love him. What I had started with that Tasawwuf says that there is no affair without love brother till I love him, now you have to listen further carefully that what is love called in the papers of Allah, this Allah Ta'ala starts telling you the definition of his love, these are the words of Nabi Pak S.A. Salam, these are written in Sahi Bukhari, these are quoted from Abu Huraira till I love Him so I become his sense of hearing with which she hears and his sense of sight with which she sees and his hand with which she grips and his leg with which he wakes Oh my God I am not able to read the whole thing, at what level this conversation is going and if he asks me, Khuda asks the servant himself, tell me what is your wish, I will give him and if he asks my protection, I will protect and I do not hesitating as I hate the soul of the believer for he hates death Allah Akbar and I hate to dispoint him Allah Allah Allah all my life the maulvis kept telling us that we should disappoint Allah, we should not let Allah be disappointed that we have not fulfilled your wish and here Allah Taala is saying I hate to dispoint which personality is this, Tauba Tauba Tauba Tauba, on whose name Allah Taala said that I cannot disappoint him while he does not like death, he does not like death, why should I hesitate while taking out his soul A conversation is going on, you can imagine, Allah Ta'ala is saying about a person that when the time of his death comes, I get hesitating, Allah, Allah, Allah, please come back, bring me back into the real world, thank you, from here the beginning of Sufism begins, I remember the rubai of Amir Khusro, man tu sudam shad ho gaya shad, man tu shad mein you ho gaya, man shudi you mein ho gaya, ya ho gaya, man tan sudam tu ja shudi I body became gaya, this is a Hadith Qudsi on the basis of which I am saluting Amir Khusro, man tan sudam tu ja shudi ta kasna goyat badi, so that no one can say after words, man the gru digri t I am you and I are two separate entities I become you and you become one I become you and you become me we become so one, just like the Hadith Qudsi he is yer t I yer he becomes him Legs are mine my legs his hands are my hands so if you are standing up against him I declare that I will enter the battle Allah Taala is saying that I will fight with him who even points a finger at such a dear person of mine now who is this person who is this ashas where is this Susawwuf taking us what is this Susawwuf telling us what fundamentals are these what is this conversation what have I been doing all my life whatever I did was a kuffar I remained in kuffar because I was in ignorance what did I keep seeing what had this hadith was revealed to me but what was this verse revealed to me Ala Maysha whose on whomsoever he wished in all the time after all the time on whomsoever he wished he sent an angel to open access to his friend so he became me and I became him and neither did I walk nor did I talk I talk how how did it happen what makes it true happening Allah's spotlight directly turns on, in this he is not mentioning any angel, there is no mention of angel in this hadith and I had written a couplet, you have to listen carefully and do not misunderstand it, in which place did I call me and said that I was in conversation, I called me and said that I was in conversation, no name came for me, I did not need an angel to communicate between me and my lord he takes me up and he talks to me directly, this hadith is being seconded, I gave value to Amir Khusro's rubai because of this hadith and I second this couplet of mine, when someone asks me why did you write this couplet so needily, then I say read this hadith, there comes a moment in the life of a man where God falls in love with him, Amir Khusro is saying that I fell in love so much that I became you and you became me, I became the body, you became the soul, so that no one can say that I am separate you, separate here From God himself do not even raise a finger at my bill for I have become him it is me it is not him you look at him you look at me you look at me you look at him which level is this which degree is this calling me where did you speak to me there was no name for me to return I will pass through this world to return light has the property of reflecting I will pass through this world to return I am the light he has not come here to stay the sky he is my waiter I know that even today my Zaryab has not come home he is waiting for me to go back home and I have fallen in love with this apparent world wealth charm wife children mother father sister brother friend friend love food drink splendor fair while he awaits every day and what do we say may you live a thousand years there are days in a year thousands of years happy birthday may you live long while he is missing you that perhaps today while sleeping he will say that today my eyes will open so open it at home but we can think like this we say brother never close your eyes, if I find some machine, if I find some pill

I want an emoji I have given an emoji to Hazrat Khizar I also want one Hazrat Yes, I have also known till now in the sky Hazrat Isa is still in the sky I have also known We say that brother this one is some other line, they say we have to go home, call us home we are tired, this Hijrat made us mad, crazy, you ordered us to Hijrat, we came to this world, this Hijrat made us Muhajirs, we kept on stumbling from door to door, you call us back home we miss home just like home misses as we say don't you remember don't you recall home don't you recall your will he become you don't you want to become him don't you want to reunite there is a verse from the Holy Quran Allah Allah Alaala I will remember then let me tell you we recite a common verse from the Quran Inna lilla wa inna ilayhi [Music] Raj kulo nas maut suma kya hai wa poori ayat kya hai wa sumana tarjan ki nafs ko Death will come and the soul will go home. It says, brother, why do you wait for death? How do you have so much liberty? Distance from the beloved does not pain you. You do not miss the beloved. What will you do while living in this life? The chapters of this begin to open. The first and foremost thing. Now you have to note down the point. The first and foremost thing comes up with a term called Talf Te Lam F Talf T A L F What is Talf? To negate this whole structure. To destroy it. Within your frame of mind, if you deny this thing, then the doors of Sadar will be knocked down. But when will this thing be denied? When you will immerse yourself in his love. No, no. You become the love of the belovérden [Music] By making kashf easy, then fana comes later. Fana is in the late stage. First of all, Talf I will go slow, Hamza, Talf. As soon as there is Talf, now I will give you an example. This structure, for example, is my soul. And a body has come over it. A nafs has come over this body. Okay, wait, this is the soul. In front of the soul is the door of the sadr. Outside the door of the sadr is the body. Outside the body is the soul and spirit. So what do I have to do? First, I have to search the soul. It will come down. The body will come down. I will search the body. Sadr will come. I will open the sadr and my soul will come in front. This is how, stage wise, now as soon as the soul came out, the coming out of the soul is called being visible. These sections kept opening up and then there was a kashf. A scene of something came. Something in the middle was seen. That is called kashf. What does kashf do? It is a membrane, kashf, after which the existence of a person is achieved. Now what is wajd? In the Holy Quran, Allah says to the Holy Prophet that the face is like a dwarf, it is very beautiful. Okay, now how do you verify all these things? See, because in the journey of investigation, nothing will go on without verification. The first rule of investigation is verification, that is, you got something to read from somewhere and you verified it. How do you verify it? With some Musad ka thing which is authentic? In Urdu words, I will translate them. Verification, through a Musad ka thing, something valid, something authentic. If you verify something with an authentic thing, then it gets validated. I repeat, if you verify another thing with an authentic thing, then it gets validated. That is, if someone recites my couplet to you, then you said, I will verify this couplet first, then you will go to that authentic person who is writing that couplet, then you will say, is it your couplet? Then I will say, yes, this is my couplet. So you validate the couplet recited by that person. Through authentic means through suk jaray, you verified something and declared it as Musad ka in Urdu, so no. Receive something and you read something, you take a piece and you validate it by means of authentic process now like I told you kash, like I said talaf, as soon as I said wajd, you said brother what are these terms, from where have you brought these, I say brother these are the terms, I have brought them from the Holy Quran, so if I have brought them from your Holy Quran, then read it out to me, then I can verify it from the Holy Quran, I have the Holy Quran lying at home, the Holy Quran is in our hearts, I say okay this is how you during your process of investigation, fact finding, this is how you validate those things till now if my friend is wrong, then open chapter 93, open verse six of chapter 93, there also I remember by heart that this term was used in it, now you have to understand its understanding, yes this is when the person crossed the limit of Jawal Even the mojra from the sky did not work. When a person turns to evil, then Allah Taala closes the doors of guidance from above. Okay, 96 is different. Sorry, 93 or 96. Yes, okay, let's see in this, there is a six p. Here a term came on seven. Sorry, here a term came of Wajad. Click on it. Wajad ka Wajaj ka. Okay, now and these are three words. Now the word in the middle because Allah Taala is dressing his prophet. So this word is a very strict word. As I told you earlier, what do we say in Surah Fatiha, Leen, this is that Leen wale kaifiyat. Allah Taala is saying above. And when we found you an orphan, we gave you shelter. Now see the word found. Now click on that yik yazat ka above. Yazad ka Yazad ka okay. What is the makhhar of Yazad, Wajad Yazad means to get, to achieve, to meet, to become. Okay, actually its makhhar is Wajad or Zid. When we found you an orphan, we gave you shelter. Now look down and see the oppression of the people and distorting you. Look, what a beautiful lust has come here, I am behind

In the verse above it was said that there should be lust meaning now the translation of this verse is not like this means we will not look at it like this we keep the body silent so first let us look at the first two and the last word so what is the word of Wajad and we met you and guided you so you are in the state of body we met you and I met and I felt I need guidance because you are in the state of its history we will discuss later when this verse was revealed what was the condition of Aaka Salam when this verse was being revealed we will discuss this in the chapter on religion but here the term used is I Wajad, what does it say that when does Wajad appear on you what is called Wajat when Kashf comes upon you it comes into you and all of a sudden you standing right before the almighty you your layers nafs descended body I body was defined Sadr I was defined Sadr so Kashf It happened that when Kash gave weight later, your soul and your bill came face to face. This is the weight. Now to achieve this weight, how many layers of Nafi do you have to go through? He says that that process is called Fana. When you did all this before death by Nafi, you became a refuge and Innaala Na il Raj, back to everything, you came back to life and then you had to go back to Allah. On which Tas has a very big chapter which is called Wahdatul Wujood, Wadat Shud Fana Fila. All these things will come later in that chapter. This unification, this reunification is also mentioned in Surah Waqa. How is it mentioned? There is one right-handed people, there is one left-handed people, right-handed people will go to heaven, left-handed people will go to hell and there is one middle-aged people who will go and what term are they using? Allah Tala is muk [music] boon for them means he is so close he is so close to me he is muqbil towards my wali my auliya otherwise I will declare war with you now you meet so many people on daily basis who have all kinds of discussions about such great auliya karam and directly stand in battle with Allah Subhan Tala therefore you should never have such discussions in respect and taqri of those people because you do not know how dear I am to Allah Tala how dear Babbit is Hiba is so dear Hamza is so dear Sharab is so dear you cannot point a finger at anyone what connection has Allah Tala established with whom this is such a deep knowledge this is such a hidden knowledge that you cannot know at what level a Buddhist sitting in his sanctuary is connected with Allah Tala this is not a practical discussion in the discussion of mysticism Your mysticism says that what connection did Allah establish with whom and at what time on this side, no one can imagine, except that person and his God, these relationships of forgiveness, what is called Marf? To become aware of something, what is called Irfan? To become acquainted with something, what is called praising something openly, the comprehension of its definition to the extreme is called Marf. Now this journey of forgiveness, this journey of Susawwuf, in this journey, I have only told you its degrees on the basic macro level. When will the Talf happen, when will the Kashf happen after the Talf, when will the Wajad happen after Wajad, when will the Fanah happen, when will the Fanah Fila happen; these are all the stages that a person goes through in love for Allah, in the love of Allah, a person keeps breaking himself one by one for His sake, I had written a Sher (couplet), when I started reading this Tasawwuf, this is a part of my existence Idamon Ida means the breaking and scattering of something, existence is called existence, this is my existence, this Idamon of my existence in front of you, this Idamon it is happening why do I still exist, I should then be reunited, for now because this is a very grave topic for us, we will further elaborate it in the light of Quran, particularly because I will tell you such places in Quran that while reading it in future, you have to stop for a minute, Allah Taala loves his saints so much that when are those saints themselves, when are their hands the hands of Allah, when are their eyes the eyes of Allah, we do not know, that is why we are in a very dangerous ground, if we are pointing a finger at any saint Allah like this, otherwise God is declared to be with us, we should not declare, what status do we have to fight a war, God has come down in the battlefield, I have declared war, we read in Shariat, in religion that the one who He accepted interest, interest evolved into it, he waged a war against Allah and His Holy Prophet, that is, a man waged a war by using interest, man is not even a fly or a mosquito, how will that poor fellow wage a war, he is so stupid that he is going into this war, in this hadith Allah Taala is saying that if you say anything to my saint, then I will go into a war against you, but as far as I am concerned, I have to do that. I close today's discussion here because there are a lot of questions and the point about Hamza is that he should go a little slow on this, so let's first wind it up here and have a round of questions so that we do not get confused in your report, so we will quickly address your basic questions in about 15-20 minutes, ask questions till what we have discussed today, if there are questions beyond that, then I will tell you that they will come in the next chapter, Bismillah que Hussain ya Hussain, please say salaam waekum, you know I can call you in Arabic

or so this became amazing I'm still in that I don't know if I can fully like express my thoughts and stuff but I have a question if the eyes are yours that if logic is the tool of convey in the physical world what is the tool of poetry in the mystic world or love is everything and love is the base the fabric which no speech has, love is the fabric on which it is built beautiful abundantly see ala ta'ala has said in hadith I love him or her too that God loves in this world it is important to have an eye on everyone's witness but it is not necessary that the witness keeps an eye on everyone we are looking at the witness who the witness is keeping an eye on this is the most beautiful thing that can assist this planet to god I love him till date till today we have been told to god is love only he is capable at this level only love every big but this level he would be with some but this hadith shakveri soul of mine even now someone could be god love and he would be with her and her sir if you all me like you would like to share a poem I was waiting for this poem along but I don't understand yet what I'm feeling now about this so this tak po se I my heart would be sated my heart can travel to him Subhanallah [MUSIC] I would be a mad man who counts the stones he can find what is limitless at lock I losing myself the last resort you find you inside me losing yourself is the only result greedily sir you keep up to this and atleast thank you so much sir losing yourself in someone love I finding yourself a bald or lose yourself in someone love and find Yourself blood out ha paradoxical to yes please sir you had told that the soul also has a memory, the nafs also has a memory and where does it come from, nafs also has a memory, soul also has a memory, in Surah Jin like chapter Jin, you have to read the chapter Jin, in that Allah Subhan Tala has talked about Jinns, in that Allah Tala tells that when the message of Aaka Sala Salam had come, the Jinns came to know that the message of Allah Tala has come, so the Jinns have a dialogue among themselves, in that situation you have to read that Surah Jin Rich Ones and the Rang Dars, so the dialogue of the Rich Jinns is written in the Quran, the Rich Jinns were saying among themselves that now we do not have any condition, now the message of the Lord has come, we kept misunderstanding, so the point is that their memory was not revived in the way that Allah Tala saw, the reason why I say that man is Ashraful Kakhlook when We were just reading a hadith or we were reading ayat, then that ayat descends upon us from within us, but when we comprehend the ayat, then we feel from within that friend, this is as if I had known it all along, the jinns were not bestowed with this gift of soul, the gift of soul was received only and only by humans, on this very thing Iblis stood up, that why have you given this blessing to Adam, he is made of dust, I talked so much, I should have got it, this is why he did not say before the mighty one, that you have given soul to Adam as Salam, such a big gift and the jinn, the same Iblis is also a jinn, so that soul does not exist in him also, so this memory chip that is inside us, is present in every human being, but those jinnat, that nafs, when Allah Taala says in the Holy Quran that when I descend on a human being, I descend in one vein parallelly, so it means that those jinns anywhere They exist like in the world Arwa, Arwa exists in places where they exist like when a soul is taken down, a nafs is taken down along with the body, so from wherever the nafs comes, from whatever level it comes, it also has the memory of that level, but not the superior knowledge that we possess inside our soul, it also has a very limited memory and how old is it, it is totally an event that its knowledge is not superior, we have a superior knowledge side, that is why these Aamil on their knowledge, I am saying negative people use nafs, they control older Jinns, they control 20000 years, 3300 years old Jinns, so that they have data of 2300 years, so it is it is very limited what we possess, Alhamdulillah is far more superior, thank you to the Lord and sir, the hadith is that the soul that came out from the back of Hazrat Adam al-Salam So it was that soul or what is that, if it has not come a little, sir, it is the verse of Arra, verse number 172 and that is Arwa, that Arwa was brought out, Arwa was Ruh-e-Nafs because at the time when Arwah was brought out from the push of Adam as-Salam, at that time you and I were not physically born, this is the conversation of Arsh, it was the conversation of the heavens, at that time your and my physical existence was in the form of souls, it was not in the form of bodies, so the existence of Adam as-Salam was, Adam as-Salam was in Paradise, so he had not yet descended into the world, so the concept of bringing out Rooh-e-Arwa from the push is this, I will tell you, Surah, it is a good question, you must remember this question because Allah Ta'ala has already given the answer to this in the Holy Quran, now this gives rise to another question because both Nafs and Rooh are written word to word in the Holy Quran, but where did Allah Ta'ala discuss it in the paragraph of Nafs and Rooh, where He discussed it in the form of nafs, it is a complicated affair, for this you have to do a lot of research that the word nafs has been used here, so it has been used in the form of soul or yes, this is verse number one of Surah Nisa, first verse of Sir Nisa, please open it and you will get the answer, first verse of Sir Nisa or nas tak ya nasak rakka lak manan wa this has come, Allah listen, humans, adopt the taqwa of that Lord.

So the one who created you all from a single soul, see, below its translation is written as single soul, because now keep this comprehension that here nafs is being used as nafs or as soul, so that comprehension is like this because nafs cannot be created from nafs, one jinn cannot be created from another jinn, one nafs cannot be created from another nafs, one soul can be created from another soul, so as you understand its comprehension, then it becomes known that here the usage of nafs is that it is actually the usage of soul, and see further, write that it was created by him, so it means that nafs does not have this property that it can generate its female from it or another nafs can be generated from it, so this is taken for granted, you should understand its context that the mention of nafs here is being done in the form of soul or now this means that the exact meaning of that verse should come in verse 172. Arwah was created from the tail of Adam, which means that the soul Adam had the soul from among all the souls and Aqa Salam was also a prophet at that time. And he was also a very handsome man, you will discuss it in the next chapter, but I will answer that to you. The first soul that Allah Subhan Tala created was the soul of Aaqa Sala Salam. There is a lot of debate on the hadith regarding this, but most of the scholars accept this. Ashraf Ali Thanvi sahab also agrees to this. Imam Joji also accepts this. Ine Qaseer also agrees to this that first of all Allah Subhan Tala created the soul of Aaqa Sala Salam. From that soul, the rest of the souls were created. So Adam al-Salam did not even exist yet, so Aaqa Sala Salam had achieved the status of a prophet, which means he was still in the process of creation. So Aaqa Sala Salam was a prophet, it means he was a prophet, he was not just a prophet by the way of Hazrat Nuh. A Salam, Hazrat Isa A Salam, Hazrat Musa Al Salam and Hazrat Ibrahim Al Salam, these four prophets, just like we were promised Al-Raqam, similarly the promise of prophethood from Aaka Salam was taken from these four Ambiyas. Now when Adam A Salam was being created from dust, so these five Ambiya A Salam according to Quran and being cut by the Lord Al Mighty, they were being greeted, they were being conversed with, dialogue was taking place, just now Adam Aalaam was created from dust, then when Adam Aalaam was created and his soul came, by whatever process it came, God knows better, after that the rest of the Arwa was taken out from Adam Aalaam, so that is the creation of the Prophet Salam and other prominent prophets is a separate discussion all together that when and how it happened. Jibraeel Aalaam was created from the soul of Aaka Ilam. All the angels are called Ruhul Kaddu from the soul and Ruhul Amin. Jibraeel Salam because he has emerged from the soul, that light which we say is Noorie, is Noorie in this way because the soul, the spirit, it itself has the characteristics of light, so the relationships created from it are created from them, from Aaka Ilam, then further Arwa, from those Arwa, then further different Arwa are created and then the soul of Adam Salam, the human being created from Adam Alam, this is how the process starts getting created, according to the Quran, I have studied so for a Hadith, Thank you Sir, and these prophets are called Siddiq Nabi, no all Ibrahim as Salam, you will see this in Maryam, sir, who is called Siddiq Nabi, this entire order is written in Surah Maryam, Ibrahim as Salam is also Siddiq, Isa Salam is also Siddiq, I think these are the same five, four who did that thing, but apart from them also, Hazrat Idris as Salam is also my Khal, he comes in Siddiq, so Hazrat Idris's list is of these five My name was not mentioned in that verse, so what is Siddiq Nabi and the degree, we will discuss that later in the chapter on religion, as to who is called Siddiq Siddiq and why it is called so, we will discuss that later, but in Surah Maryam, there is a list of all the prophets, who are Siddiques and who did he give the title of Siddique to, and who is called Rasoolan, somewhere is of Rasoolan, somewhere is of Siddique, ok Ambar, you can ask your question now Alam alaikum Sir, Walekum Assalam Sir, you had said in your session while explaining the concept of love that we identify a certain spiritual element in the other person [Music] at that time, I might have said spiritual in the aspect of spirituality, from now onwards, I will use my words very carefully with you because now the concept of spiritualism and Sufism has become clear to you, now you should not introduce spirituality with words like these So if someone falls in love with someone, whether it is a parent, brother, sister, friend or beloved, then I had said that this is an inside Hadith of Nabi Pam that the souls which are sitting together in the form of planets in the world and make friendship, when they come to this world and meet each other in any way, then somehow two souls come together and a natural bonding is formed between them and they say friend there is something about you that I am not familiar with this world, what is this thing that is attracting me towards you, you are getting attracted towards me, this connection, relationship of that thing comes into this world and gives you a feeling from within, this is that aspect of love which you fall in love with someone on a super natural level, you say that this is someone and something else, it is not this thing, it is the thing that attracts me, many times they are in similar gender, someone older, someone older, someone younger, someone in some historical reference, I have been attracted to Hazrat I have a strange love for Isa Salam, I feel that somewhere in Arwa I was a slave at his door, I am Hazrat Isa

I have a very special love for him, Hazrat Isa Salam, I feel as if I have some other level of love with him, I love him, I love Maula Ali, somewhere in the world, I was a seeker at his door, I used to sit outside his door, hoping that if he comes out, I might get a chance to see him, I believe that this is the kind of love that you say that there is some confusion that I am in the world, I repeat not Jannat, Jannat is the second phase, we will discuss later that where is Jannat, where is Hell, where is Arwa, where is Barj, but in the world, we have some connections with each other, when we meet those people in the world, some how, who knows in which part of the world they are born, at what age, what gender they are born, we do not know, but if we meet somewhere, a bond gets established which is beyond explanation, you say there something is bringing us closer, what Is that, so the reflection of that period comes somewhere in the memory of the intellect of the soul, one gets déjà vu, one gets a love symbol that I have seen you somewhere brother, I have spent time with you somewhere, such conversations happen that time always was, it was a beautiful feeling, beautiful, I am very key in this, it was a beautiful feeling, Id ji Alam Sir Walekum Assalam Sir you Alhamdulillah Ali Sara Jag Ali Ali ji ji Sir, Sir my question is related to this, what you had said that you were taken to Meraj and after that you told us about this incident of Hazrat Khizar Salam that he was from some other world and there is a transition between them in the practical world, so my question was that can we manage that thing with the practical world like we have examples like Maulana Room's, after that there is Allama Iqbal, at the top we have Maula Ali, very It is a lot, yes, I can definitely do it, what will it be, what does it mean, you were explaining but I did not complete the conversation, let me tell you one truth, as far as I believe, I am giving my opinion now, I am not talking about research, I am not someone but some person, I am giving you my opinion, you can rightly reject this opinion because it does not matter as it is one person's opinion, do not give it more value than this, I believe that a Momin is one who is complete, Aaqa Salaam Nabi Pakam, if you see him different from all the prophets in any way, out of all the 1.25 lakh prophets, the one thing about Aaqa Salaam is the most beautiful and do you know what it is that makes him the most special prophet of Allah in my records, that he is the only prophet who stood up at one time and said that today your religion is complete, no prophet could say this, no prophet could do this, Allah did not make any other prophet do this Subhan Tala told him that today the day has been completed, the perfect religion has been completed on the Jaat. Now it means that the Lord of Aaqa Salaam can give blessings to a perfect Momin who will not lack anything. Now, in my papers, a perfect Momin is one. If someone asks me who is a perfect Momin, then the opinion of Jariya Hashmi is that one who knows everything, one who knows everything, one who has also acquired the knowledge, one who knows the matter, one who knows the self, one who knows the soul, he does not even know, he only knows it, he has got Wajad. If you ask him anything about this, he will say that I have had this, it is inside me, as soon as Allah Tala will give me Wajad, I will be free from Kashf, my soul will be full of everything. You should understand that it is such a beautiful entity that as soon as you access it, you will You have experienced everything, you have united with all the souls from one soul to the other, from time to time. So whatever the first soul experienced, you got that as well; whatever the last soul will do, you got that as well. Now if someone comes to you and asks you how does this happen, you will say that this is going to happen with a person 2000 years from today and I know it because I have become one with him. Then there is no concept of unknown to a believer. The believer gets access to the known. This is what I believe. Now when does this happen, how does it happen, how does it happen, and when does it happen? Its steps are only worship and prayer, worship and prayer. So you have not understood that these are clothes that I have taken for granted. I have to wear worship, prayer, Shariat, so this is my lifestyle. This will definitely happen. I have to eat roti (bread) if I have to stay alive, I have to sleep. These are the things that we are discussing. These are superlative degrees towards the level of a believer that someone is offering namaz and I will tell you a small story. When we were in school life, we had a friend in our neighborhood, an ordinary kid, not even an extraordinary A grader, he used to live in my lane as well, he was in my class as well, he used to live in my lane, so we used to play cricket in the evening, so the exam time started, it was the days of exams and somewhere that month of Zil Hajj was going on, the month of Zil Hajj was going on, so I am cutting it short, one day we were standing outside his house, then some people five-six people from his house were ringing the bell of his house, so we were playing cricket outside, so we asked whom have you met, meet so and so, we said it is his house, meanwhile his parents came, they had sweets in their hands, they said yes we have come to thank your son, we have come to give them sweets, then they said who are you, what is your relation with my son because they were senior people, that kid was 14-15 years old at that time, they

He asked, what is your relation with your child, you are of old age, they said, he has helped us a lot in Haj, he was with us on Haj, then they said, you have come to the wrong house, this is not his house, my son is having his exams, he was preparing, from where did he come for Haj, then that friend of ours comes down, he salutes him, thanks him, takes the sweets and says that these people will not understand, please go and he leaves, that boy was sitting in his home physically doing his studies preparation for exams while he was performing Haj and helping certainly who is over there, how and whoever wrote the comment that how is it possible then there is no such thing as possible, then only one thing can be achieved, but they do not ask how is it possible, they ask how was it possible, was time travel possible 200 years ago, 400 years ago, 1000 years ago, no, now this is not the question of time travel Is it possible or not, now the question is how is it possible, how to achieve it, similarly how did that child go on Haj, it is not how is it possible, it is how do I do it and how will my son do it and how does he do it, so I have given you the answer that Allah Taala opens the doors of whoever he wishes, opens the doors of that world, then what is this world for him, that world Miraj, so this is the seventh sky, then the sixth sky, he is in flight, then Momin Vich Vishal will keep giving him at that time, then the lover who is a Momin, achieves the degree of lover of love, then Momin Vishal remains in a state of mind in him, then Allah Taala may take him here, he may take him there, that king, then if he has loved them, then wherever he may take them, he may take them there, wherever Allah Taala feels that I am needed there, I can be of use to them, then Allah Taala will land me there, he will help someone on Haj, he will help someone, he will help someone win in a war, he will help someone pass an exam Will get anyone ready, what to do while being were ever I am a no one as everyone who sitting somewhere doing nothing these divine miracles of Allah which descend on the prophets and those which descend on the non-prophet are miracles, this is the definition of miracles that mystical happening which happens with the prophet is called mojha, miracle; that which happens with the common man is called karamat, this miracle shows the love and miracles of Allah now who loved Allah how much, for whom did Allah say in reply that I declare rubber point finger at my blood this is another world, there is something else beyond it, there is no benefit of Sufism, no Islam is necessary, Allah loves whoever he wants to, who can stop the love of Allah, whom has Allah loved, when did he love, even before the advent of Islam, and even after the departure of Islam he will love, in the presence of Allah, the religion of all souls is faith, which is written When Alirik was born, Arwa had promised. Now, after that, Arwa is landing in the house of a Jew, she is landing in the house of a Hindu, she is landing in the house of a Muslim, she is landing in the house of an infidel, she is landing in the house of a mushrik. She has gone from here after making a promise. When she has gone after making a promise, it is Allah's. Allah will give whatever He wants to whomever He wants. Allah is capable of everything. Love, love, ingredients. Do not crush the nafs. Do not crush the nafs. The nafs is a strength. It is an energy. It has to be harnessed. It has to be channelized. It has to be converted. Assalam Walekum Sir Walekum Salam Brother, how are you, Al-Lula Sir, I want to write what ever you have learned from the lesson that is mysticism and realism and mysticism. We can read spirituality from mysticism and then it is divided into spiritualism. Yes, speak of religion or so I love this. dey also your soul part of it you mention complicated discussion as well my only question is can you by controlling love spiritualism must never go into you have to control yourself and the fire before reaching the level of tah and reaching the level of tah ala sula love is like the first thing in accordance to what I read in the books of the universe talaf is the first stage talaf means knowing and defining everything that is real and nafs is acquiring everything that is in the path of tah by definition talaf means naf ignores the first boundary in this shariah it also go hand in hand to define nas and then shariah takes different routes and start taking another route but in the beginning they go together shariah also demand love of the lord if You do not love the lord or you are not on the Sharia of the lord you are just faking it so love is the first key and defining nafs in both sides is the first step according to the literature ok sir thank you but someone came crush you don't crush don't crush I gift don't bless you have to convert it into your religion or reason there into your belief or belief there so which side you say right naf from right or left or left naf says Bao Gupta you can ask your question Assalam Walekum Sir Walekum Assalam Sir you had told in the beginning that Iblis had asked a question and the angels did not ask a question Bau Don Kar Sir always this question comes up that means Allah is also there in the Quran and it is said at one place that timena aata so how to balance it where to think where is where we have to ask a question and where to listen Obey To do it means that the question can be asked before faith and once the plane arrives, we will not ask any questions and we will be confident that this may be a little complicated, well, elaborate your question further so that everyone can understand your question.

Yes, if I am saying that I am a Muslim and I believe in Allah and I am saying that I have faith, then when a person has faith, then all of them say that this is my faith, now I do not want to question, now follow me on the thing which I know, and but when you are looking at their belief, then they do not know anything from inside, they do not know the basics, when I stand at that place and think why is it like this and behind this, then this question is being formed behind the question, this question is being formed behind the verse, then those people say that no, you cannot think, but the Quran is saying that you have to think, then in what way will its Mizan be established, see, it is a very beautiful question, we had discussed one thing in the chapter on religion, the difference between Aqida and Aqidat, Aqida is called when you get strong belief on something, on any concept, if that picture Hiba please share, I can explain it better than the picture. I will be able to do it. I have written this in it. This is a very important question. Look, on the left side, Khas Ilahiya is written. On the left soul side, this and on the right side, parallel to it, Taqwa is written. In between these two, below the conscience, Yaqeel Mohkam is written. On the right of Yaqeel Mohkam, there is Iman and on the left, there is Aqida. These are the four big aspects of any Momin's life. When the heart says from below that there is someone who is my creator, then from the right side, the brain starts putting its thought process and product into practice, which is our Shariat or Tariqat or religion, which is our practice. The brain generates its product on this thought process, out of you, if you are a Muslim, the product could be a Jashman, the product could be a Hindu person. The brain gives flight to the thought through the mind at the behest of the heart. So Allah Subhan Tala sends an into from above, then your intellect is drawn, on whose Meezan, and this is on the right side. Your faith is established on the scale of wisdom, knowledge and wisdom. When faith reaches the level of belief, it becomes your belief. Now when it becomes belief, you are in the shadow of Yat Ilahiya. Yat Ilahiya does not mean that someone, in fact Shagufta had asked at one time or Momina had asked Yat Ilahiya. It does not mean that I am afraid of Allah. Khash Ilahiya means that my father told me that my car is parked, go and do your work in it. So I am driving the car with so much caution that no one falls on this car because if my heart or my father's heart gets hurt, his confidence in me will be lost. I am carrying his trust. He has given me permission to drive with so much love. I am not afraid that if there is an accident, my father will beat me or scold me. However, if there is a bad accident, God will be worried. He will take care of me. He will get me treated and will cure me. That is, the trust which is established there is in the name of love that Allah has placed such a huge burden of trust on my head, Allah is placing such a high level of confidence in me, Allah is trusting me that this mountain should not fall from my hands, I should not disrespect this mountain, this is the special quality of Allah, when we base our life on this special quality of Allah, then the standard of our Taqwa is maintained, at what level of Taqwa does he live his life, those who are Mut, Hud lil Mut keen, this book is a guidance for those who are Mut, whose life gives the reflection of practical life of Taqwa, now your question is that to what extent do we have to go through the thought process of the command and where do we have to bow down immediately, and what does faith do that faith is a degree of love that even if my father tells me to get my neck chopped off, I will get it chopped off, in this faith I am getting my neck chopped off Ah, the beloved said that you are wrong and I am right, should I accept that or ok friend, the beloved said he is wrong, so in this faith I accepted many such things which my mind rejected, which the principles rejected, which the truth rejected, I did it in faith, now I am understanding the faith of faith, I am not even questioning the logic, the command came, he said so, so I cut me off, my son, he said so Hussain Ali Salam raised his son towards the sky and said take this and then threw his blood in the sky saying this is my love, now you in your path, I sacrificed my children, the blood splashes towards the sky and they say this is my love, Iqbal had said that the story of the haram is poor and simple and colourful, the story of the haram is poor and simple and colourful, its very Hussain is the beginning, Ismail Iqbal also keeps the entire story of the haram between two sacrifices, Allah Ta'ala keeps the entire story of the haram That the story of the Haram is captured between these two sacrifices that one Ibrahim al-Salam had put a knife on the throat of Ismail, had sacrificed his son in his love and one Hussain al-Salam had sacrificed his entire family in his love. Now when this love reaches a certain degree, then that question-answer-logic, these things end. Yes, when your Aqida is getting established, when you have to convert your Iman to Iman Mufassal and make your belief strong and that Aqidarest, then you read all those things, understand them, acquire them, ask about experiences, Tajiya, Mushahid, experience, exposure, you go through all these things so that it does not happen that I do not know.

What am I, what is my belief, but faith and love do not see what I am doing. Now you look at Hinduism, you look at Muslims, you see in our own sects that when their rituals are going on, whether they are mad madmen in the love of Barelvi Salam, or they are mad madmen in the love of Ale Tashi Hussain Salam, or they are mad madmen in the love of Nasri Maula Ali, faith and love will definitely make a person crazy, now where is the scope in that madness to generate a balance between sanity and the level of sanity, it is not in the power of man, that is Allah's blessing, if someone got it then he got it, if he did not get it then he did not, then the person watching will feel that friend, this is Kufr, this is Shirk, God knows better, is it Kufr or Shirk or love, faith, love, romance, what is it, no one knows about this thing, God knows better, you have your own You have to keep the margins straight, you should know that you are doing something out of faith, you are doing something out of love, you have to have faith and this balance is not such that if you get it today then it is for your whole life, it does not happen like this, it is a state of mind which opens up in you at some time by the grace of Allah and you get generated all of a sudden, then after that you again go through some other phase where you say to Allah that I am not able to understand, then Allah opens your state of mind and your balance gets generated, for this you have to turn towards Allah all the time, you have a connection of love with him all the time, so each and every aspect keeps on impressing you, secrets keep getting revealed, it doesn’t click, it happens was a laugh life, every new experience is a wave of doubt, in that doubt you actually shake the shutter, at that time you have to pray to Allah at that time Allah helps you, then Allah helps you, says don’t worry I am here to help you, guide you how You generate this balance, that is why the door of your turn towards Allah has to be kept open at all times. In the next chapter, I will show you such verses of the Quran with reference under the topics. You will say what has happened to me. This verse has never opened for me like this. At that time, all these scales will break. At that time, all these scales will be filled. At that time, you will say what is this. If I go into mysticism, I look at religion from a different perspective. If I go into religion, I look at ethics from a different perspective. If I go into ethics, I look at philosophy. So, the balance of these events that shake you, only Allah will bless you. For this, grace will only come from above. So, be prepared for the whole life for the shock waves and be very connected to the load. For there is no man who can tell you the answers except one being Allah Subhan Tala. Today, I have also told you the verses of Surah Nahl, the 108th verse of Surah Nahl in which Allah Tala is present. He is saying that whomever I wish, out of all the times, I will reveal my rule over him I will send angels over him to give access to his soul from our Rabbi this is how you can achieve this only in the current world there is no prophet or imam present from whom we can take guidance now we can take guidance only from Allah Taala inshallah ran yan ask please keep quiet and shut Salam Walekum Sir how are you Walekum Salam I am fine you are fine with Khariyat absolutely Sir Khairiyyat Sir this is the verse that Allah Taala chooses whomever he wants so sir then what will they do whom he does not choose sir they will make themselves capable of choosing them they are also not chosen by birth they have also done something they have shown some beautiful style which you have liked so sir if there is any reason behind this then Allah chooses it means not like this Allah Taala does not pick someone random Allah Taala does not do anything random the Sunnah Seerat Tariqat of Allah Believe in random I don't do it and anyway there is a formula for randomness too that I placed a canvas in front of me and picked up the colours like this and scattered them like this I placed another canvas and picked up the colours and scattered them like this both of them are not similar right that means my randoms also do not match each other randomness also has a formula that if I am picking up colours and throwing them like this then the shape should be similar every time no I don't know the formula for even matching sir this is a very big formula randomness it itself has a formula behind it only the Lord almighty knows what we see as random is not its random it is its beauty with proper precision that right God does not do random thank you sir que Sarlam Walekum ha are you [Music] Walamar papa r n d j d get close to each other a there are quotes what I see talk about club all and the mention of club all the mention of them starts with club and they move each other so in the diagram on the left side there is mine right so they do not need to be told to control the whole mind and what is the purpose of doing it good question very good question what happens with the club is that the club has a rhythm it goes which is the rhythm of the heart what does that rhythm of the club do it generates a molecular motion in the whole body there is a constant state of kinetics going on in our body the inter molecular pressure and inter molecular motion within the molecules of each atom and molecule and compound inside our body and organs all this happens due to heart beat so when we get temperature one we have fever our pulse goes high because the rhythm is so fast that the molecular motion is so quick that it happens in our body it generates heat because of the excess

we are kinetic energy and then what we do we take a pill temperature and heart beat come back to normal right this is simple science of paddle pamlt I told you right I wrote something ok sorry sir but I have to say so sir we are in connection with the line of Allah the real ones sir not the fake ones the real ones so well we will talk about it in one to one say so about it when you will clean the club then only Allah's blessings will be revealed to you generating malekar motion a rhythm of 72 pulses per minute is the ideal rhythm of 72 pulses per minute is the ideal state of a human body anything over that is going on turds fever anything under that is going on turds hypothermia hypothermia and hypothermia and balance is 72 pulses per minute what happens with this club zikr people what they do they bring people not in the room and they start to recite something be it Allah Hu Allah Hu Allah People start to listen and not just listen they close their eyes and then they establish a rhythm there is a rhythm inside their heart and then there is a rhythm that they are recite Allah Allah Allah right and then they start to bring both the frequency of the rhythm of the heart and the rhythm of what they are recite on one plane and then the guy who is moderating this he takes the rhythm hi low hi low sot he he can sit every body is sinking in just like a rave party there's magic going on and they take a pill and they bid the rim and the whole party rocks right like wise with the sidek drugs now what's happening it they are mente rim and then they start to take it to the clocks rim the rhythm goes high and the hot beat is raging and then suddenly they take it down with the drop and every big cup and fall down falls flat now what's happening during this time is their bodies are recharged and what they claim it if the moderator is a genuine Peer who you are saying is the real one if the moderator is an asli wala Peer Fakir what he does is that he can with that rhythm alone that whose heart beat whose heart beat is not falling with the frequency of the rest of the people it means there is a fault that lies in the heart of that person so what then they do later is that they invite those people separately and they say you know what I have found out that there is a problem with you either in the physical side of yours and the spiritual side of yours so I am going to give you certain Ajk Zikr that you will do on Tasbi after this prayer after that prayer you do that and you come back after one week or 10 days and then we will do the zikr mefal again we will find out how purify you are and gradually they bring every person on the same plane if achhe wala sahi wala insaan ka bachcha peer fakir is moderating it right now this process where it does it's a good thing in one side it's a kissing process but I am personally very much against it because unfortunately damage certain weak hearted people you can even damage them to a level they cannot be recovered they cannot be repaired once damaged you can't undo that it's a very risky affair so I would not want to be a part of that zikr mefal neither would I want to be a part of the moderator of that mefal because it is trusting the guy so much that his life is in his hands and that is something I would not wanna do that is something I would not want people to do but this is how they do that but that is one aspect of it and then there is another aspect where they transfer and trans something into other people's hearts while maintaining this rhythm that is a superlative degree and then the greater peer does a greater thing and then the greater peer then when these peers unite they have a zikr mafil of a very extreme rave party some of the things it's very difficult to even understand where they play with the rhythm and fly out of according to the then they fly out of this world and then come back and do a plate of them this is equal to MC Scr one your malekar motion unites with this malekar motion of the soul then you are travelling with the speed of light and when you become infinite ye jo gaaro me jaake peer Fakirs manipulate the disappeared beat in such a way that the molecular motion of their speed of light comes with the soul and that speed of light makes them travel and they reach from somewhere and then come back also, some how, I don't know how but they do that, so this is that mechanism, you should know that you should be aware of that don't let anybody take you in such a dhikr mehfil, it's a risky affair or 72 pulses per minute interesting take o quen fam ala ji amalek kaise Sir Walekum Assalam Alhamdulillah I am fine, you are fine, all is well Alhamdulillah, the meaning was that the one who remains in the condition of wajat within his caste or some lull is cut in his caste or he cuts a lull in someone else's caste, what concept is this I am not getting it clear, a human being does not live in himself, see, Allah Taala says in the Quran that I infuse my form into the human being to us So, Amre Rabbi, Allah has breathed a sigh of relief inside us. Now technically, something created a flame inside us when we were born. Now what is that thing? It is some super natural thing created by Allah. It is a thing created by Allah. Its flame makes us alive. Imagine if a dead person comes alive in front of you, you would be shocked. What is this? Something has come inside him. He was dead, how did he get up suddenly? It means there is some external thing which is inside us and this body is an external thing which is on top of that, but there are two ways of looking at it. Either inside the body or outside.

If a soul has gone from outside or the soul is connected and on top of it Allah has added a body from outside. Now this connection is my hand for example, I have brought another hand on top of it, so my hand is connected to me, even if I have placed something else on top of it, now when I want my thing to come to me, if I remove it, my hand will come back. I will give you an example of this, this is a very important point, you have to listen carefully, in my book, which Insha Allah you will see soon, the book named Out of Time, I have written a thesis in it, The Taste Thesis, its video is lying on our grey lounge, Kul Nasan Zaika Tul Maut, every soul has to taste the taste of death, Allah Subhan Tala, now all of you please listen carefully because this might change the perspective of yours to look at life, all together for some people, it happened like this was asking you guys to pay attention, today Hiba has shown you the Hadith which I keep mentioning that Allah Taala says that I become his hands, I become his legs, his eyes, his ears, it means that the extended arm of mine is that being, Allah Taala is saying this in the Hadith Qudsi which Aaqa Sala Salam has said and it is quoted from Abu Huraira in Sahih Bukhari, now you have to leave all the doubts, you have covered all the chapters on this, now this extended being whose eyes are Allah Taala, whose ears are Allah Taala, whose everything, Allah Taala has said I am I, so now whatever he does, Allah Taala will feel it, when Allah Taala says in the Quran that I love you a human being, I love you more than 70 mothers, I know death also, I know this also, I know the afterlife also, I know everything, so how do you know how does that happen it because Allah Taala is so connected to what ever you are doing, even death, when you are choking, his extended being can feel it, when you commit a sin, then remember Keep in mind that that sin is felt by him because of which he burns you. If I put any bitter taste in your mouth, you will spit it out. Similarly, when we commit any sin, then we are afraid that what have we tasted, only Allah can spit it out and we ourselves spit ourselves out if we come to know that some bad taste has gone to Allah through us, if we are that straw, if we are that being through whom Allah is fulfilling his claims, it does not suit the majesty of Allah, death cannot come in his definition, God cannot die but he needs, he wants, he knows what death is, so how does he know that because we give him the experience of death, it is as I am saying about this hadith, what is Allah saying at the end of that hadith that he does not love death, now I have to understand the thing, I have come to know that Allah has started tasting death through me, so how will I make my beloved die, I may die 10 times but Allah cannot make me taste the death, I please open this hadith again, you will see it, not now, do not open it immediately, but just at the end, my Aulia is the one who I am, I am his ears, I am his eyes, and at the end Allah is saying that he is not letting me taste the death, the death of the entire generation, he says how will my beloved see this pain of death, he does not like me to taste death, but I have to, if your father tells you, your elder brother, your son, your child says to you that father, I will die, you will say son, I die, what is death, the completion of the load, the mighty God can taste the God, God knows no death, so to complete the definition, my Aulia descends for death, he says I cannot, but Allah says don't worry, because no death will hurt me, this hadith is such a big eye opener, this hadith is so crazy that if you understand this hadith only, then you will say that Tasawwuf is the existence of the creator, creation and creature. The one who doesn't understand Tasawwuf, he doesn't understand anything. It is only in Islam that it is leveraged in this way. Such a big hadith, I will show you such verses, you will say that the Quran has been revealed for Tasawwuf, this book is guidance only for those who believe in the inner self. Now what test should I give to Allah Taala my whole life, why do Tasawwuf people go crazy in love, that Allah should only get the taste of love, if someone hits me with stones, the mad man says, let me give the taste of love only to Allah and I don't want to give anything, if someone tells me that he is non-Shari, he is a kafir, he is a kafir, aakh, you ahho ahho akh call me, Bulleshah, say that he will call you a kafir, well you are a mushrik, well any aspect of hatred from my side during the test should not reach my God, these are the crazy colors of Tasawwuf of yours, each step is yours It will become dangerous that I will walk like this and reach the top, I will say this, he will touch me, I will feel this, he will feel pain, so what does it mean that I should just do something that only good goes to him and if I do something bad, then I will burn myself before reaching the test, burn me first. Zaryab, I think I should head towards hell even if I want, someone should go there, Katib Gunah, the angel of this side writes our sins, Katib Gunah, salute to your patience, by now you should die by chance in heaven, I got scared after meeting your heirs, those who claim that they will go to heaven, I got scared after meeting your heirs in heaven, you tell me where should I go, fire is here, Basirat is here

It is a painful thing that you should understand how each of your moves is reaching Allah, then you will not be able to stop yourself from saying that you should just call Allah right now, I have given you a lot of pain, I have given you a lot of troubles, I have made you taste a lot of bad things, I came here to send something to you and I have been doing this all my life, just show me the way to hell, I want to burn, I want to burn in that love, I want to burn in this ignorance, what have I done, now he has gone, now I cannot even say anything, it is his love, he says repent, repent, repent, I say I repented and died, repent, repent, what have I done, what have I done in my whole life, the meaning of repentance is that you say repent, repent, repent, what has happened, this has happened, now I have done it, now I have spent my whole life in this disbelief, in this Now we have given him whatever we had to give in the punishment, that means I am giving these gifts, I am showing these gifts of sins to Allah Tala, that are the gifts am sending as the extended arm of the lord, it is better to chops of this arm and throw it into hell, I do not want to give that taste or become the medium, I do not want to become the medium through me that anything reaches him, I am not capable of it, it is scary, true, this is the fear of the almighty, anyway, G raan, aak quella waekum salaam sir, I have two questions from the answer you were just giving, one is what you just said that even Allah Tala feels it, so there is a hadith in which it is said that if the whole world together wants to harm him, then they cannot harm him and similarly if they want to benefit him, then they cannot digest it, so how will you interpret this and what you said, one meaning is that if a person understands that he can harm Allah even by wishing to, It can be beneficial or it cannot be beneficial, but if Allah wishes that I will get something through this, then Allah will give it to whomever he wants. What is this? Allah will choose the person who I want something through this, he will become his eyes, he will become his ears and in his presence his mind will become pure. Not everyone is capable of this. Not everyone understands the truth. The great scholars could not understand this. The dialogue of Ibn Arabi with Sheikh in Arabi, he used to say, who are you? You have such a big name, for this the name has to be ended. You are very high-paid people. We are very selective people. I do not know that Allah has made great hearts very special. Not every heart that breaks is made to be broken. Hearts are made to be broken. And Sir, the second question was that as you had said that the tribes that were formed in Arwa, theirs are made here as well. The tribes are formed from the essence of men and women. Does Arwa also have gender? This is what I am telling you that at the time when Arwa is connected, they do not even know what their gender will be, right, so their relationship becomes soul to soul, which is called soul mates, these people become soul to soul, when they descend into the world, then it is known that the man is a man or a woman is a woman or whether they are older or younger or far away is another thing, but when you are descending into the world, now as much as it is related to me, as much as I have experienced, I am telling you according to that, it is not something, I can give you a reference of any book, I believe that I was so brave as a soul that I descended after telling everything that Allah Tala has to descend me here like this, so I will be present for your service, I am ready to do this, for Allah Tala, your Khushdeep, now what did Allah Tala see after seeing the sincerity of which Arwa After seeing everyone's feelings and he knows everything, whose prayers were accepted at that time, whose promises were given to him according to his standards, that is something only he is aware of, this secret which Allah has revealed to us after we came into this world, when we came down, I came to know that I was born as Zaryab Hashmi and this initial memory that Allah has raised, Allah has raised this memory for the first two-three years for this reason, let me tell you that people do not have the answer to this question, I got the answer to this question from an elder, the process of our birth in the first two-three years is the honor of our mothers, which should not come into our memory, our process of birth is such that it is obligatory that the memory of that time should not be there, so after the first two years, certain things Allah has also told the mothers that you have to keep your children from this much distance for two years because after that the memory bank starts getting established, so the memory bank gets established before the mother That respect is erased for the sake of honour and dignity, so that is why when we wake up, we are two-and-a-half years old, then we do not know anything, we have to recall our memory, for that Allah Taala sends science and gives hints, there are hints in the Quran as well, there are hints in the skies and the skies, you keep gathering those hints and start recalling your memory and pray that make my head clear so that I remember it because I had accepted this challenge that yes, I know I will not have my memory for the first two years, so even after that I will remember Allah Taala, at that time we had made big promises and claims

When we come here and get distracted we forget that the one who says that we come without our will, he is less understanding, he is less knowledgeable, the Quran says that you come down in this world after properly touching me, this holy Quran is saying that remember your touching me, the touching is a well thought out game, it is a promise, it is not like that you kick the bird and throw it out of the nest and the child starts flying, we are not the children of the bird, we properly dialogue with Allah, make a promise, get our mechanism established, get our fate recognized and we land by claiming that even if you do not give us memory for the first two years, we are very clever, we will figure out everything, your science can see it, we come and get busy in the gully, we forget, we do not value it, sometimes angels come and show us science, sometimes we are meeting with our elders, sometimes we are meeting with books, sometimes we are meeting with accidents, accident We are getting it from him, we do not say that we love the world, it is not that someone pushed us, we ourselves think and understand and after telling the name of our family we get down, this is my claim, this is my caste claim that you have to give birth to me in the house of Adim Ashmi in the year 1900 Fala, then in the year 2000 Fala I will do this thing for you, for your self, then in the year 2000 Fala you take me up, if Iblis asks for time from Allah till the doomsday and promises that give me time till the doomsday I will mislead him, then I am Ashraf than Iblis, at that time I will be saying that Iblis, you try to mislead me, I get down and after coming I forget, I have become his slave and sit, what a shameful place it is, this is a very very late, it is nothing random in this equation at all I also have not got down at random, nobody gets down at random, how many Arwa are there who become victims of miscarriage They say that we will not be able to do it, we should do it quickly. We have told you here, Kalu Bala, we have told you that we are believers but we will not tolerate this tough deal, take us in two months. Allah says, come on, take you. This Arwa decides these deals in Misaaq that how many years we need, we will do it in that many years. I have told you that you do not watch the videos of Grey Louch, probably all the people do not watch this in Purpose of Life. I have told this that when Ibrahim Alam was using a knife on the throat of Ismail Al Salam, then Hussain Al Salam said in Arwa that O Allah, Ahmed Al Salam is to come from the family of Ismail Al Salam, Nabi Pak Sallam is to come, do not let the knife be used on him, I will sacrifice myself with my umbilical cord, but Ismail Al Islam should be saved. And at that moment a goat comes out from under the knife, Ismail Al Salam is saved. Then Ahmed Alam comes and he comes and says that Hussain is from me, he is my daughter's son and I am from Hussain because the sacrifice of Hussain. I had not called Ismail Salam in Arwa, if the knife had been used then how would I have come. These are Misaaks of this level in Arwa and promises of this level are fulfilled. Promise is loyalty, every Sajda is the way of loyalty, Hussain is so great that Hussain is so great that Ismail Iqbal had also said this. Hussain is the beginning of this. Ismail Iqbal had also understood this. The story is simple and colorful. The story of the Haram is very much its beginning. When the knife was being used on Ismail's throat, Hussain had said that I will sacrifice myself, then 72 people had said, Labbaik O Hussain, we are also ready to die, how can you go alone, so when Hussain al Salam was going towards Karbala, then the companions came and asked, where are you going, you will be sacrificed there, so he said, I am going because I have to keep my promise, they said, if we had accompanied you then you would not have said, your souls in Arwa did not make this promise. You have more work to do You will do what my family had promised We are going to fulfill that promise Now tell me Zaryab Hashmi what promise did he make Ali what promise did he make Babit what promise did he make Have you ever thought about this thing that I should remember it I should design it according to my nature such a promise which is larger than life in which my life may be lost my heart may be lost everyone may die but he may die in its way I am too busy let's admit it we don't have time for this we need a life here we need respect popular fame fortune kids charm travel tourism selfies videos snap chat money power interesting people anyway last question Rabia Sasama yes please Assalam Walekum sir Walekumussalam how are you Alula son are you fine Alula sir I have never asked any question but this is my first question Umi I will not take much time Bamla welcome sir enough when we are very Since I was young I have been listening to the Qaseeda of Hazrat Hasan Bin Sabit in which he says that so sir, you just told that the way of your Salam was already present and then you came into this world, sir please explain this a little because I don't think that anyone I know can explain it better than you, I would like to add one thing to it, sir that when Hasan Bin Sabit Razala wrote this poetry and said this Qaseeda, then sir, he too must have known Tas, right? So sir, then our Maulvi Hazrat of today or whoever does not believe in Tas, then even the Sahaba (companions) have denies of Sufism, see, whatever they do, leave them alone, these poor people do not do anything, Allah Ta'ala rules over anyone, he does not rule over anyone, as soon as you look at these people,

If you raise your hand, then you are challenging the intention of Allah, you challenge the intention of Allah, he is our king, our beloved and whoever he gives love to, his love is his, his kingdom is his rule, whomever he gives love to, whomever he gives hatred, he gives hatred, what has he thought, the greater will of the Almighty is the most superior thing we just before it and we will say, if you put us in hell too, we will go away laughing, if you put us in heaven, we will say, as per your pleasure, you will extinguish us so that we do not exist, after that we will say, you are our king, whatever you think of us, you will only think good about us, so who ever does what ever let it be, it is okay, the greater will of the Almighty is working on a regular basis, Allah says in Surah Raaf, and we are always busy in running the system of the world, so delay is not a single ant watch is out of the sight of the We are the Almighty, no single amoeba, no atom is outside the sight of the Almighty, so humans, all are under His sight. Now coming back to your point, I will narrate a Hadith to you. When I read that Hadith, only then I came to know how Allah Taala creates the sequence of creation. Allah Taala says that when the Doomsday will come, I will order Jibrael Salam to take out everyone's life one by one, and Sabki means everyone, a time will come when everyone's life will be taken out, I don't know, I don't have the courage to read the Hadith, so a time will come that Aaka Salaam will remain, Jibal Salam will remain, Isra Feel A Salam will remain, Mikal Salam will remain and Izrael A Salam will remain, five people, one Aaka Salam, Ji Salam, Makal Ala Salam, Isra Feel Ala Salam and Izrael Salam, okay, in the continuation of that Hadith that then Allah Taala himself will take out the life of Aaka Salaam, but what order did he tell about it, Jibrael Salam himself They will say to Salam that now take out the life of Mikail a Salam and they will take out his life, then they will ask who is left, then he should tell that now take out the life of Isr Fil Salam, he should take it out now who is left, they will say Aaqa Salam remained, Jibal Salam remained and I am left, then Allah Tala says Ilam now take out the life of Jibraeel a Salam, then he will take out the life of Izrael a Salam himself and then after taking out the life of Aaqa Salam they will say is anyone left, is there anyone, there will be no one except me in this universe and at that time Allah Tala will say, Allah Tala has said in Hadith Qudsi that then I will destroy my beloved, then from his soul I will destroy Jibraeel, Salam then from his soul I will destroy Isra Fil, I will destroy Mikail and I will destroy Izrael, now how does this Hadith open up for a person like me that Allah Tala told the ending order and then the re-establishing order that first of all Aaqa Salaam, at the end his life and first of all his existence again If it will be recreated, then this is the order which happened in the beginning also. I have no doubt that when Allah Taala was there, there was no one and when Allah Taala wanted, there was only him and his beloved and no one else and how many crores and trillions of years he has spent with his beloved, no one knows and I had mentioned the hadith earlier that Aaka Salam asked Jibraeel Salam how old are you, then he said a star shines on the throne, after 70 Hajj years, I have seen it shining 7 thousand times, then Aaka Sala Salam laughs and says that that star is me, that is Jibraeel al Salam, he does not even know that the star which was shining was the Jaate Mubaraka of Aaka Salaam, but what is the interesting thing, Jibraeel had said that there is a star on the throne which shines once after 7 Hajj years, so at that time there was this one star and one God also, the star he was referring to was the light of the soul of Aaka Salaam, these two were just one and There was nothing and only these two will be there, in the end, whatever else will happen. My life is based on this thing that there is one Allah and one is his beloved, if you go to the feet of the beloved, he sends you to the court of Allah, if you go to the court of Allah, he sends me to the feet of the beloved, we stumble and prostrate ourselves, sometimes we go there, in the midst of their love, we have no other existence, we just have to acknowledge their love, seeing their love, we have to be proud of ourselves, if we do not fall in love with these two personalities, the kind of love that is obligatory for us, the sincerity that we need, then leave your worship, you leave your namaz, everything will hit you on the head, you yourself will say, as soon as you wake up in the end, your brain will come to optimum use, you will say with shame that we are not worthy of this, the Quran says that you will say, send me again, I did not understand, I will do it right this time. So I would say that I have been burnt, I will come again and do Gandhi, I do not know why, I can, I can only give you this two hadith, then Aaka Salam is the first being that was created, drawn, navigator, only Aaka Salam could enter, that is the end of the story, that only those two are there in that haram and the rest of the world, the entire universe will end, that haram will remain, only that haram of Allah and there is his beloved, that is it there, nothing else matters, only these two matters, we are only for his and the oneness of God, we only come to give his martyrdom, to testify that these two are their love, we are just witnesses, we are standing like witnesses, giving martyrdom, this is our work and no one else has come to do anything, we have only come to give this martyrdom, martyrdom to this martyrdom

So it is said that in this martyrdom, giving up one's life is called martyrdom I hope you get some level the answer to the question got any more questions let's say it's okay it's already too late May Allah keep you people happy or for its report if you people need a discussion session again then please feel free to ask because already four to five hours have passed here so now the evening session will be extended to another and those who could not have attended can put forward their questions and answers in the evening so close this discussion now and may Allah keep you happy and happy, see you in the discussion session and in the evening repeat session at last then from my side falla thank you Allah